(light music)
In an era of ever-evolving cyber threats,
organizations are constantly at risk of financial
and reputational damage.
Whether it be from ransomware attacks to data breaches,
the spectrum of cyber threats is broad
and potentially devastating.
The need for competent, knowledgeable security professionals
has never been greater.
So this course provides a deep dive into the various
methods, tools, and technologies used
to provide a resilient environment and recovery solutions
in the event of a cyber incident.
By enhancing your understanding and implementation
of robust security solutions,
you can significantly fortify your organization's defense
against malicious actors and recover from incidents
with minimal downtime.
By understanding the threats that exist
and where they may come from,
you'll be able to make your organization
a much harder target for adversaries.
Hi, my name is Christopher Rees,
and welcome to my course, Resilience and Recovery
and Security Architecture for CompTIA Security+.
Plus, some of the major topics that we'll cover
include leveraging high availability to reduce downtime
and increase performance.
Also reducing the attack surface of your organization
by leveraging diversity in technologies, vendors,
and controls, the various types of plans
that every business needs, including disaster recovery,
business continuity, incident management,
and data retention plans,
and then also the different types of data backup strategies,
including full, differential, and incremental backups,
along with when to use them.
By the end of this course,
you'll have the knowledge required to understand and assess
your organization's data resiliency
and recovery capabilities, along with a deeper understanding
of where each technology is most appropriate.
Additionally, you'll be able to articulate these findings
to your peers, management, and partner organizations.
Before beginning this course,
you should be familiar with general IT
and computer concepts.
So I hope you'll join me on this journey
and learn to strengthen your organization's ability
to create highly available systems
and recover from incidents, whether natural disasters
or malicious bad actors with the Resilience and Recovery
and Security Architecture Course
for CompTIA Security+ here at Pluralsight.
(light music continues)