So when we're building things
around the cloud,
whether it's on-prem, in the cloud itself,
whether we're doing like a cloud native or a cloud on-prem,
whether we're doing a full-blown hyperscaler cloud,
like an off-prem cloud version,
there's a delineation between where responsibilities lie.
So cybersecurity responsibilities are typically shared
between the provider and the customer
to ensure all the aspects of security
are handled appropriately.
And it's pretty critical that we understand
where that delineation lies.
So that matrix or that line in the sand, if you will,
will change depending upon the cloud service model,
whether it's infrastructure as a service, or IaaS,
platform as a service, or PaaS,
or software as a service, or SaaS.
So let's take a look at this.
So you can see we have a little legend here in the corner,
customer managed and provider managed.
So in an IaaS, or an infrastructure as a service model,
you can see, customer managed is the top section here,
the things in pink.
So identity and access management, user behavior monitoring,
data encryption, application security,
middleware security, network controls,
and the operating system, right?
So pretty much all of the stuff from the O/S up
is the responsibility of the customer.
The actual provider does physical security, does networking,
virtualization, and then basic infrastructure
like storage, network compute,
all of the things that you would assume,
and that is behind the scenes or behind the curtain.
So you don't really have visibility
into how those things are accomplished,
nor do you care, typically.
But again, as a security professional,
you want to make sure you vet their practices
to make sure they're in line with yours,
and at least as good, if not better.
And then when we talk about platform as a service,
it kind of moves up the stack,
so the provider will manage a lot more of that.
They take care of the operating system,
the network controls, and then any middleware security.
So basically you're just looking at application security,
encryption, user behavior monitoring,
and then IAM, or identity and access management.
So there are still things that the customer will manage,
but it becomes a lot less.
So the provider manages the vast majority of that.
And then when we go into things like software as a service,
they pretty much take care of everything.
The customer is only really responsible
for user behavior monitoring,
and then identity and access management.
So the key takeaway here is as we go up the stack,
IaaS to PaaS to SaaS, the provider manages much, much more.
But even in a SaaS model, there are still some things
that are the responsibility of the customer,
to making sure that the user behavior
is done correctly and securely.
So training is key here.
And then also identity and access management
to make sure that you're giving access
only to the people or the folks
that need access and not just everyone.