So to make sure
that you understand the various concepts,
let's talk about X as a service, right?
It's a bit of a buzzword, right?
So you can insert your buzzword as a service.
It could be anything.
So anything that you would typically provide
either to yourself or to your customers,
if you automate that and turn it into a service,
then it would become X as a service.
So it really boils around virtualization
and commoditization of almost every layer of the IT stack.
It could be networking, storage, compute,
database, et cetera, et cetera.
So what this does really
is provide for a quicker deployment
along with increased high availability or HA
and disaster recovery or DR.
So I mentioned infrastructure as a service.
So IaaS allows for distribution and consumption of resources
as a service, right, as the name implies.
Multiple users can utilize the same infrastructure.
So if we have multiple customers utilizing the same gear,
that's referred to as multi-tenant.
Just like an apartment building
has multiple people living in that building,
they're using that facility, it's a multi-tenant facility.
Same concept here when we're talking
about infrastructure as a service.
So we have a bunch of servers
that aren't being used simply by one person or one group.
We could have multiple groups,
and that could be internal or external to the company.
And what that does, it allows for elastic scaling
as needs and demands increase or decrease.
It's typically priced as a utility model.
And what that does is it shifts the company spend
from CAPEX to OPEX.
In other words, instead of having to buy everything upfront,
they buy just as much as they need
and they only pay for what they use.
And then they have a recurring bill
month after month after month.
Versus CAPEX, you might buy it once
and then you would depreciate that asset
over X number of years, typically five years,
but if you're doing an OPEX model,
there really is no end to it.
You just pay for what you use.
It's consumption-based, like a utility would be,
and it just lives for the life of that project
or the life of that piece of infrastructure.
So again, this can also be public or private,
depending upon how your company structures things.
And you can see here, it's made up of different things
like CPU, storage, interconnect, or networking.
So all of these things are kind of bundled together
and given to the customer.
So they don't have to worry about doing any of that stuff.
They simply deploy their server or their infrastructure,
whether it's manual or automated.
And if they need more, they'll scale up,
again, could be manual, could be automated.
And when they're done using that
or don't need that additional resource or resources,
they can scale back down again,
tear those things down back to their bare minimum,
so you're only paying for what you need.
IaaS also lends itself to automation.
So it leverages automation and self-service,
which enables a customer
to select their own hardware and software configurations
and provision their own infrastructure.
So here we have a user as an example.
They would log into a self-service portal,
and from there they would choose their configurations.
Right, so that could typically be
a small configuration as an example.
It could be one server with one CPU,
a certain amount of RAM and a certain amount of storage,
or they might need a medium size,
could be a larger, beefier server with additional CPU,
additional RAM and storage,
or it could be like a large server, right?
We're kind of doing T-shirt sizes here,
small, medium, and large.
But a large server would have even more compute,
even more storage and RAM, et cetera, et cetera.
So it allows them to choose
kind of between different sizes as they need,
and if they need additional resources,
that can be scaled up, as I mentioned,
and then torn back down again when not needed.
Next, kind of going up the stack a bit,
we have platform as a service.
So a PaaS environment
is comprised of computational resources.
It can be test and dev environments.
And these things can be easily created and configured.
So the benefits are there's really no need to order
and acquire hardware and associated infrastructure.
Test environments can be quickly created,
expanded as needed.
We can run tests, we can report on those things
and then tear those things back down on demand.
And again, multi-tenant,
where many users can use the same set of resources.
So the benefit really is speed to market.
There's no need, as I mentioned, to acquire, rack, stack,
configure hardware, configure network,
obtain IP addresses, order load balancers,
virtual local area networks or VLANs,
install software, configure,
so on, and so forth, right, the list continues.
So all of these things are taken care of ahead of time
or by the provider, allowing the actual customer
and the developers to really focus on what they need to do.
So some example, platform as a service or PaaS providers
would be AWS, Elastic Beanstalk,
Microsoft Azure App Service.
And I'll just kind of go through the rest here.
I'm not gonna go through each one individually,
but you get the idea.
There are a number of large scale
kind of hyperscalers as referred to organizations out there
that provide all of these services for customers.
And they're all multi-tenant.
You can have potentially hundreds of customers
on the same hardware, which allows for our economy of scale
and allows the customers to pay, as I mentioned,
only for what they consume, scale up as needed,
tear back down when they're done.
Moving one level further up the stack,
we have software as a service.
So a SaaS offering or software as a service
is basically an application that's provided on demand.
So here, there's no setup,
no installation or configuration required.
Everything is taken care of by the SaaS provider.
All you need to do is consume that application.
So examples might be Salesforce or ServiceNow,
Office 365, Google Apps, and so forth.
So just understand the distinctions
between these different groups
and how they play into your overall architecture.