Next, let's talk
about on-prem versus off-prem.
So on-prem, as you might guess, you own the infrastructure,
so you have more control on customization
and on non-standard builds.
So I'm talking about servers, desktops, storage,
whatever the infrastructure might be.
When it's on-prem and you own it, you can control
how that is built, how it's managed.
So you also have more direct control over policies,
management, administration and so forth.
The downside is you have to manage the lifecycle
of those individual devices.
And also, it's a capital expenditure, right?
CapEx typically.
So you pay for the entire cost of that device upfront
and then you depreciate it over time.
When we're talking about off-prem,
and when I say off-prem, I'm referring to hosted
or cloud environments.
So in off-prem environments, you don't own the equipment,
it's managed by the provider.
So they take care of patching,
lifecycle, all that good stuff.
Now you have less control over customization,
less control over policies than the overall administration.
So that could be a plus or minus,
depending upon how you look at it.
Also, no lifecycle or maintenance activities.
So you just consume the infrastructure.
You don't have to worry
about projecting lifecycle activities
and all of that good stuff.
And then patching and security, as I mentioned,
is managed by the provider.
And then we have the opposite of CapEx, which is OpEx.
So you don't pay for the entire thing upfront,
you only pay for how much you use,
you pay for it month over month.
Now, the downside is that will last in perpetuity
or as long as you're actually using the infrastructure.
Whereas when it's a capital expense,
after five years, it's fully depreciated.
Now again, most organizations
will not keep their infrastructure longer
than five years anyway,
so you're gonna go out and basically buy a new piece
as soon as you're done paying for it.
But at least you don't have to pay for it all upfront.
So with OpEx, you typically just pay a monthly fee,
and that just continues for as long as that project
or whatever isn't actually in operation.