Okay, so let's talk about something
referred to as a SCADA system or SCADA.
So we're basically talking
about Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition systems.
So you may not be familiar with this term yet,
but it's very important that we understand what it is
and the implications if those things
are not maintained properly.
They can have a big impact or potentially a big impact
because these types of systems
usually refer to centralized systems,
which monitor and control entire sites
or complexes of systems spread throughout large areas.
So what does all that really mean?
Well, you see here I have a small diagram.
What we're talking about is things like systems
that control the electrical grid or the power grid,
things along those lines,
things that are very, very important,
nuclear facilities and so forth.
So again, a simplistic diagram.
We'll dig down deeper in just a moment.
But just so you understand
some of the terminology within a SCADA environment,
we have such things as an RTU or a Remote Terminal Unit,
and that is connection to sensors.
Basically, it's going to convert the sensor information
and whatever that sensor might be,
whether it's on a pipe
or some piece of equipment within a larger system,
and it monitors that via those sensors
and triggers alerts depending upon what's going on.
For example, they may check the temperature or the pressure
or the amount of electricity,
the voltage, so on, and so forth.
So there's gonna be a sensor connected to that.
The RTU then converts that sensor information
into digital data.
Next is a PLC or a Programmable Logic Controller.
So this is similar to an RTU,
but PLCs are a little bit newer,
they're more versatile, more economical,
but they basically do the same type of function.
So they're gonna report
into a Master Terminal Unit, or an MTU.
And then next, a Human Machine Interface or an HMI
is gonna present that data
that's collected from these RTUs and PLCs
to a human operator
who can then act upon that specific data.
So in other words, they may need to adjust valves
or make sure that things are within acceptable ranges,
in other words, take some type of action
based upon the triggers and the alerts.
And it's that Master Terminal Unit
or the MTU that sends that information
and instructions to the RTU or the PLC,
and it's going to receive instructions back
and basically aggregate all of that information.
(laughs) A lot of acronyms there,
hopefully that's making sense to you.
Basically just understand it's an aggregated system
with different sensors, different control interfaces.
So basically, this is just an example
of what a SCADA environment might look like.
You may have some type of Master Control Area,
where there's all different screens
from the different systems,
whether it's a nuclear power plant
or a water treatment facility or an electrical grid.
It could be a sewage system. You know, you name it.
So these PLCs and RTUs
are spread out through the entire system.
They all report back to the MTU,
and you have an operator that sits and manages and maintains
and of course monitors all of these things.
Okay, so if we look at this in a little more detail,
you can see in that SCADA system we have RTUs right here.
They're gonna be computers set up along the network,
and typically these are closed-off networks.
They're not connected to the internet, they're air-gapped,
or at least not traditionally.
So you'll see as we go along here, they've kind of evolved
from a non-connected air-gapped type of an environment
into things that are now more distributed, networked,
and in some cases actually connected to the internet.
So in this specific example, we have to be aware of the fact
that we could have a remote access hacker
that can get in if our machine or our network rather
is connected to the internet
or if we have some type of access point.
Whether it's a legitimate access point
or even a rogue access point,
we may have a remote access attacker
who can then come in from with internet,
very similar to how they might come in through the internet.
So it's critical to make sure the networks
are as secure as possible.
So one way we could do that
would be to add monitoring into the network.
Right, so we could add a network intrusion detection system.
So some of our hosts may be locked down.
We may not be able to add anything onto the actual hosts.
So we can't put in a host intrusion detection system,
but we may be able to put
in a network intrusion detection system,
and then firewall off the network itself.
Even if they're attaching to the network itself
from within inside our network,
we could detect that intrusion.
Okay, so a few SCADA security concerns.
Now, as I mentioned, when these types of systems
were first invented and first brought online,
they were very monolithic.
Right, they were not connected to the internet.
They weren't designed to really be connected
to anything else.
They were designed as self-contained, air-gapped networks.
So like I said, the change from proprietary closed systems
to more open connected systems and protocols,
as the platforms have evolved, right,
they started off as very monolithic systems
and they evolved into distributed systems,
then they went into network systems,
and now we're bringing in IOT or the internet of things,
so we potentially have access from anywhere.
So some security implications and some concerns obviously
would be unauthorized access.
It could be malware, it could be hacking or theft
and destruction of data.
So all of these things are obviously a big concern
from a security standpoint.
But we have to understand that these types of attacks
can be used to degrade or destroy critical infrastructure.
So two big ones that I wanna just call your attention to,
one you may not be aware of.
The actual first known successful cyber attack
against critical infrastructure actually took place
over 20 years ago in Queensland, Australia.
So in a nutshell, there was a disgruntled ex-employee
who had specific knowledge of ICS
or industrial control systems and SCADA systems.
So using that knowledge and some special equipment,
he was actually able to leak 265,000 gallons of raw sewage
that was leaked into local parks and rivers.
So as you can imagine, that was a pretty crappy situation.
I actually placed the link down here at the bottom.
If you wanna read more about that specific scenario
and see what happened and a bit more behind the scenes
of how things were carried out, please check out that link.
So in the previous example,
we were talking about water treatment centers
and water treatment facilities.
In this one, we're talking about critical infrastructure
around nuclear facilities.
So in this instance,
malware was actually used as a digital weapon,
and it can be used to degrade
or destroy critical infrastructure.
So in 2010, the malware referred to as Stuxnet
attacked targeted ICS or industrial control systems,
specifically the PLCs and the SCADA system
that was used in Iran's nuclear facilities,
destroying roughly 1,000 centrifuges.
So unlike most malware that targets any vulnerable system,
Stuxnet was designed specifically
to target the Siemens Step7 software,
which managed the SCADA systems
at the Natanz nuclear facility.
So once on the network,
Stuxnet search for specific configurations
of programmable logic controllers or PLCs
that were used in the centrifuges.
And that was brought in initially via infected USB sticks
that was used to gain access to that air-gapped network.
So once it made its way into the network
and actually infected those specific PLCs,
it actually spun the centrifuges up very fast,
then slowed them down and sped it up and slowed them down
and created wear and tear
and ultimately broke those centrifuges.
But it tricked the system
into reporting back to the operators.
So the HMIS and the humans actually monitoring these things
that everything was okay, so they had no idea.
So the cyber attack on the Natanz facility
was really groundbreaking in many ways.
It was one of the first known instances
of a digital weapon causing physical damage.
So the intricacy of this malware,
combined with its targeted nature,
really at this point in time marked a new era
in cyber warfare and cybersecurity,
bringing attention to the potential vulnerabilities
and critical infrastructure really worldwide.