When we're talking about vulnerable software,
again, I mentioned we have two different ones.
Client-based, which is basically an agent
is installed on the client, a small piece of software,
but that needs to be updated and patched
as vulnerabilities are discovered.
So one more thing we now have to actually monitor,
patch, update, and so forth.
And then we have agentless,
uses existing communication methods and built-in protocols
and authentication mechanisms.
So yes, that's easier.
It doesn't always necessarily give you the full range
of functionality that a client-based install
might do, but it's easier.
It's not something you have to update constantly.
However, existing communication methods and those protocols,
they do need to be updated periodically as well,
as vulnerabilities are discovered.
So it doesn't necessarily mean set it and forget it.
All these things have to be periodically reviewed,
updated, and so forth.
Another big one is misconfigurations
and weak configurations.
So a weak or improper configuration
can expose an organization to risk.
And it's really a false sense of security,
because if you think you've done something correctly,
you're not necessarily likely
to constantly keep monitoring it.
In other words, if I went and bought a really heavy
steel door and I put 10 locks on that door,
but I never actually bothered to lock them,
or I didn't screw them in tight enough
so that you can just push the door gently
and all the locks fall off, well,
that's a false sense of security, right?
Because I think I've done the right thing,
but I really haven't.
What that actually creates is a gaping hole in defenses.
Because now I think I'm secure, I may let my guard down,
I may not pay as much attention,
and that actually makes me less secure.
So as you might imagine, those things can also
increase the attack surface.
So it can be mitigated through
vulnerability scanning and security audits,
as we've talked about before,
but these things need to be run periodically.
Again, it's not a one-and-done.
It should be done weekly, monthly,
or at least quarterly, if not more.
But at a very minimum,
at least enough to make it worthwhile.
And then when zero days or things pop up
that are more or less out of band,
we have to have the mechanisms in place
to build or scan our networks ad hoc
to make sure we can identify vulnerabilities as they pop up.
And what this allows us to do is establish
a security and a configuration baseline for each system,
and then we can periodically audit against that.
Because once we have a baseline set,
then you can very easily see
when you start to deviate from that baseline.