Hey, everybody.
Welcome back to the Pluralsight.
I'm your instructor, Christopher Rees,
and in this module, we'll be talking
about security principles
to secure enterprise infrastructure.
So let's go ahead and take a look
at what we'll be covering in the module.
Talk about three main things, infrastructure considerations,
secure communications and access,
and also selection of effective controls.
So as usual, take a little peek behind the curtain here,
see a little bit more detail.
You can see there's quite a number of subtopics.
So as usual, go ahead and pause here
for a second if you like,
read over what we're gonna be covering,
and then when you're ready, let's go ahead and get started.
Okay, so when it comes to infrastructure considerations,
the main thing we wanna think about is device placement.
So the security considerations I'm speaking
of are things like authentication methods or types,
whether we have public-facing applications,
perhaps a screened subnet, otherwise known as a DMZ
or demilitarized zone.
Also, monitoring and detection, such things as firewalls,
proxies, SSL, decryptors, and then various trust models.
So all of these things come into play
when we're talking about the design of our network,
where things should go,
what devices perhaps are not in our environment
that should be, et cetera, et cetera.
So some additional considerations,
and hopefully your office
or your working space isn't quite as cluttered
and messy as this one here.
But what I'm talking about are things like sensors
and collectors, different types of correlation engines.
Maybe we're having things come in
from a number of different sources.
I'm gonna correlate them together
so we can understand at a certain point
in time did something happen,
whether it was in the network or storage or compute,
maybe an application.
So if we have a correlation engine that can take the sensors
and the data from all these different disparate applications
and networks and so forth, it helps us to narrow down
and see exactly where something happened
across the entire span of our environment.
Other things like filters, VPN concentrators,
load balancers, a DDoS, mitigators, aggregation switches,
and then taps and port mirrors,
which we'll be talking about more in just a moment.
So not to dwell on it too deeply,
and I won't read through all of these,
but I want you to just take a look at them
and then understand or think to yourself,
where did these fit into my existing environment?
And then if you're not familiar with the things
on this list yet, we've covered a few things here already,
and we'll be covering the rest
throughout the remainder of the course.
So again, take a moment, pause, read through this list,
and just keep these things in the back of your mind
to understand that these are all critical when we're talking
about defense in depth, or layered defense,
or layered security to make sure that we have all
of our doors locked, our windows closed, and so forth.
As the saying goes, it doesn't do much good
to have five locks on your front door
if the side window's wide open, right?
So we wanna make sure we have a layered defense here.