So along those same lines,
we have inline versus a tap or a monitor.
So when we wanna actually monitor traffic taking place
on our network, we have two different types.
So an inline mode allows for active monitoring of traffic
and as I said, it can take various actions.
It's an active thing,
so it can take action on what it finds.
So firewalls, web application firewalls,
so intrusion prevention systems and DPS systems,
all of these things are basically in line
and can take action on what they find.
A tap mode is passive
and it does not sit in the direct path of network traffic.
So we're talking about intrusion detection systems.
Notice above we said intrusion prevention systems.
So prevention can actually take action to prevent something.
The IDS systems can detect it, it can alert, let you know,
say, hey, something's going on here,
but it's not going to in and of itself
take action and shut anything down.
Network forensic tools would be another example.
Again, after the fact, or passive,
it's not going to take any action and shut things down.
Keeping in line with that same train of thought,
we have port mirroring,
so port mirroring is also known as port spanning,
or you might see it spelled as SPAN all caps,
which stands for switch port analyzer
and what this does is it sends a copy of all network packets
seen on a specific port,
or it could be an entire VLAN for that matter
to another port to be analyzed.
So in other words, it's gonna capture all the traffic
taking place on the network of the device
that it's connected to
and send it out to a specific port
that has a monitor set up on that port
that will then analyze that traffic.
So we use these things for intrusion detection systems,
for troubleshooting, forensics,
user monitoring, and so forth.
So as an example, so here we have a switch,
and in this example, this is how things
would typically function on a network.
Alright, so we have, let's say four PCs on that network
and they're gonna connect to that switch.
And as we know, a switch will learn what PCs
or what hosts live on that network
and which hosts are attached to that specific port.
So it builds a Mac table for each port.
So in this instance, we have one PC attached to each port.
So that mac table for each port would have one Mac address.
In a port mirroring scenario,
we have a very similar setup, a same switch,
but in this instance we have three hosts
that are attached to that switch.
And then we have a monitoring device
attached to port number four.
So the port mirroring device.
So basically in the traditional
or the original scenario,
PC number one would send data to port one, right?
It's connected there,
and let's say it's actually destined for PC number three
or connected to port number three.
Well, since the switch knows
what Mac addresses are on each port,
it only sends that traffic back out of port three.
So only PC three sees that,
PC number two and four doesn't see that traffic
because it's not destined for them.
Well in a port mirroring scenario,
all of that data from all of those devices
come back out of port number four.
So if PC number one as an example is talking
to PC number two, right?
The data will go in port number one,
come out port number two
so that traffic takes place as normal,
but it will also mirror that
and actually come out port number four
and that monitoring station will also see that traffic.
So let's look at a similar scenario for a fiber switch.
So taps have the ability to copy traffic
and send it out another port to monitor,
as we just talked about.
In the case of fiber networks,
they can actually split the light usually 50/50 or 70/30
and send some light out of the monitoring ports.
So we have external fiber, internal fiber, all right,
so we have our switch X, switch Y,
receive and transmit ports.
Well in this scenario,
the import and out port are connected
on these two different switches,
and vice versa,
the import and out port are connected
so that way they can communicate.
Well if we place a splitter in the mix on those fiber links,
then we can also connect
and split the light out to the monitoring ports.
So we place a splitter on both fibers
and connect it out to the monitoring ports.
So every bit of traffic
that goes across those two switches
will take place as normal,
but a portion of that light is being split
and sent out to the monitor so that it can actually monitor
and analyze all of that traffic.
We can do the same thing in a copper scenario.
So here we have a switch and a router,
east-west traffics basically going left to right here.
Well, if we were to place a tap in that mix,
again an out-of-band monitoring tool.
So it's passive, we're just capturing the packets.
Those packets are being mirrored
and sent to the monitoring tool for later analysis.