Okay, next along those same lines,
let's talk about Secure Access Service Edge.
So this is a cloud-native framework
that combines the best of a lot of different worlds,
a lot of different security functions
with wide-area network capabilities.
So it's converged services, so we have firewall,
VPN, data loss prevention,
and also cloud access security broker functions,
also zero-trust security, we have identity-centric access,
it can provide edge computing,
and then global points of presence.
To put it in very simple terms from an end user perspective,
it allows us to have VPN as a service, if you will.
There's really nothing to log into
once it's running on your machine.
You're securely communicating over the network at all times.
So some example SASE providers might be Zscaler.
So Zscaler is one of the leading SASE providers.
It offers a cloud-native security platform, as I said,
web security, firewall, cloud access security broker,
DLP, or data loss prevention, and also SD WAN capabilities.
We have things like Palo Alto Prisma Access,
Cisco Umbrella Secure Access Service Edge,
and then Akamai Enterprise Application Access.
They all offer similar services,
and they're basically a converged security framework
that allows folks to connect pretty effortlessly
from wherever they're at, and they communicate securely
without having to jump through a bunch of hoops
or spin up additional clients or log into different places.
Once you have one of these services, Zscaler, as an example,
once that's running on your laptop,
when you connect to a public Wi-Fi spot,
or from home or anywhere, for that matter,
you're always communicating through that network
so your traffic is encrypted and it's secure.
Okay, so when we're talking about the selection
of effective controls,
there's one mantra that I want you to remember,
and that is, "defense in depth."
Another word for defense in depth would be layered security,
much like we have in this picture, a castle.
A castle has a moat, it has a drawbridge,
it's going to have guards at the gate,
it's going to have people with whatever,
bows and arrows or spears, and then cannons.
It's gonna have multiple layers,
upon layers, upon layers of security.
So someone who's trying to attack that castle
has to get through a number of different defenses
before they can get inside.
So we apply that same methodology to our network.
So I won't go through all of these one by one and read them,
but I do want you to be aware that there are
a lot of things that fall into defense in depth.
Starts off with security awareness and training.
That's always a great place to start
and that should be done periodically
to keep people up to speed.
But just pause this for a few seconds if you like,
and read through these, and understand
that there are a lot of tools in your tool belt
as a security professional that you can use to make sure
that your environments are as secure as possible.
Okay, a lot of great information in this module.
Good stuff, jam packed, of course.
I hope you enjoyed it and you learned a lot.
Please stick with me, 'cause up next, we'll be talking
about concepts and strategies to protect data.