So that brings up geolocation concerns.
So data sovereignty we talked about.
Many countries have data sovereignty laws
that require certain types of data to be stored
and processed within that country's borders.
So these regulations can pose challenges for organizations
that operate globally, as I mentioned,
as they may need to establish data centers
or cloud regions in multiple locations
to comply with these laws.
And then we have compliance and regulations.
So different regions in different countries have varying
data protection and privacy regulations.
GDPR in Europe as an example, or CCPA in California.
Organizations must understand
and adhere to these regulations when processing
and storing data, which can be extremely complex
when dealing with data from multiple geographic locations.
And then on top of that, the laws are constantly evolving,
they're being added to
and new ones are being brought online.
And then when it comes to access control,
geolocation can be used to enforce access control policies.
And while this can enhance security,
it can also be challenging if legitimate users
need to access resources from locations not covered
by the restrictions such as a remote worker
or traveling employees.
And then another concern would be network security.
So attackers may attempt to bypass geographic restrictions
by using techniques like VPNs
or proxy servers to make it appear
as though they're accessing resources
to an authorized location.
Defending against these types of attacks can be challenging.
We've talked about a few of these previously,
like impossible travel
and some other things that can be put in place,
but it is a challenge.
And then we have resource redundancy.
So geographic restrictions can limit redundancy
and failover capabilities.
So if a disaster or an outage occurs in one region,
it may impact serviceability
and resources that are not adequately duplicated
or replicated into other locations.
And then also on the flip side of that,
when we start looking at HA and DR sites,
we don't wanna necessarily put one so close
to our primary site that some type of event
or impact would actually take out both locations.
So there's obviously a fine line there.
We wanna make sure we have that redundancy in place
without introducing additional risks
or challenges into the environment.
Another concern when it comes to geolocation
is latency and performance.
So restricting access to resources based on geolocation
can impact user experience and also application performance.
So users that are geographically distant
from where the data sits or where our servers sit
may experience slower response times if they need
to access resources that are geographically distant.
Now, visiting a website or so forth, not a big deal,
but if we're actually doing things that are time sensitive,
like database transactions and things that require
very low latency, that could become an issue.
And then false positives and false negatives.
So geolocation security policies may sometimes produce
false positives, like blocking legitimate users,
or false negatives, allowing unauthorized access
due to inaccuracies in the geolocation database
or other methods.
So just some things to keep in mind.
I wanna make sure you understand the different geolocation
concerns that may arise when you start implementing this
and looking at the big picture,
especially when you start operating globally.