So when we talk about open service ports,
there are roughly 65,000 service ports.
The first 1,024 are defined by RFC
and considered standardized.
From 1,025 up, are more or less open,
and can be used by application developers and so forth.
So what does that mean?
Well basically, having unnecessary ports open,
as I mentioned, increases the attack surface.
So if we have 500 ports open,
but we're only using 10,
well, that's 490 ports,
or basically 490 windows that are open in our building
that people can crawl through,
or at least try to crawl through.
So we need to lock those things down.
If we don't need those ports,
if we don't need those services,
then lock them down, put them down, turn them off.
That reduces the attack service considerably.
So many different software programs can quickly scan servers
and networks, as I mentioned, for open ports,
and we'll show that here in just a moment.
Okay, so let's do a quick demo of open service ports,
and we'll use an existing Pluralsight lab.
If we do a search
for LAB: Network Analysis: Network and Host Discovery
on Pluralsight's website, you'll come up with this lab.
Also, if you have access to a Linux machine,
you can do this on your own without having
to log into the lab.
But for ease of demonstration here,
I'll be using the Pluralsight lab.
So basically, we're going in and opening terminal.
And from there, I just do an ifconfig so I can see
what my IP address is.
You'll notice here that I have an IP address
of 172.17.0.1.
That's great.
But what I'm gonna do, is actually scan the network using
something called Nmap and I'm gonna scan the network
172.31.37.0/24.
And in doing so, I'm gonna use nmap-sP,
or you could also use dash S, lowercase N,
basically doing a ping scan of the network.
And again, I'm searching the network,
172.31.37.0/24.
That will take a few seconds to run.
And then we'll see that I actually have several hosts
that come back on the network.
I have 172.31.37.92,
.187 and .228.
So I have three hosts
that have been identified on that network.
So I'll expand the window just a bit so it's easier to read.
But from there I wanna understand
what services are actually running
on those specific machines.
So from there, I will issue another command.
So I'll type in nmap -F for a fast scan,
which basically scans the first 100 ports on
that host to see what's up and running.
So I'll basically type in 172.31.37.92.
And I see I actually have a typo,
'cause I'm so used to typing in 192, whatever, whatever.
Let me go back and fix that.
This just time's out.
Okay, we'll go back, 172.31.37.92.
And from there,
you'll see I have two ports open on that host.
I have SSH, and HTTP, port 22 and port 80.
So as an attacker, that gives me some information about
that specific host that I could use to try
to do some penetration testing,
or see if I have some vulnerabilities there.
So let's try the other host.
So let's go for, instead of 92, let's go for 187.
Now I see there, I have SSH and also MySQL.
So I have a database running on that, on that specific host.
And then if I try the last host about 228,
I see that I have SSH, HTTP, and also HTTPS.
So I'm more than likely a web server running
on that host as well.
So I have some information now to go on,
and I can potentially launch some penetration scans
or some vulnerability scanning to see
what things might be vulnerable on those hosts.