Hey everybody, welcome back to Pluralsight.
I'm your instructor, Christopher Rees,
and in this module we'll be talking about resilience
and recovery in security architecture.
So let's go ahead and take a look at what we'll cover
in this module.
We have a number of topics.
We have high availability, we have site considerations,
platform diversity, multi-cloud systems,
continuity of operations, capacity planning,
testing, backups, and then power.
And as always, we'll pull back the cover just a bit,
look at the subtopics that we're covering.
So go ahead and pause here for a moment.
You can read through the additional information,
and then when you're ready, let's go ahead and get started.
So ultimately, when we're talking about things like backups,
and resiliency, and recoverability,
you need to put it into perspective,
and think, "What's in it for me?
Why do I care about this?"
Well, a number of reasons.
First and foremost,
it will provide increased speed and agility.
When we have tried and true backup and recovery procedures
and high availability procedures,
it allows us to get back up and running
in the event of some type of issue.
And it also provides more confidence that we can test things
and try things, knowing that if something were to go wrong,
we're able to recover quickly.
So it provides that increased speed and agility
from a couple different angles.
And then also a reduction in errors and outages.
Again, if we can recover very quickly
and our outages are minimized,
that downtime translates to a reduction
in losses around revenue, consumer trust, and so forth.
And then also increased resiliency and recoverability,
so that kinda goes without saying.
But all of these things put together,
what does that really give us?
(laughs) Well, it gives us peace of mind.
We can go to sleep at night,
not sitting there worrying about the pager,
or our phone going off, or getting an alert in some fashion.
It allows us to know
that we're putting best practices in place
and all of these things across the board,
reduction in outages, reduction in cyber events,
reduction in downtime in any fashion.
All those things go a long way (laughs)
to making a happy security professional,
or a happy administrator, and so forth.