Okay, let's talk about recovery site options
and some terms I want you to be familiar with.
So what we're basically talking about
when we say recovery site, we have our normal data center,
but we also have a separate data center
that we're able to move into,
and these things are set up for disaster recovery purposes,
so if a tornado or a hurricane or an act of God
or terrorism or a bomb or whatever
were to take out our primary data center,
we have another place we can go into.
We can move our applications and so forth.
So there are a few terms I want you to be familiar with,
and I'll talk about the type of site, the cost,
the pros and the cons.
So starting off with least expensive,
we have something referred to as a cold site.
So a cold site is inexpensive.
You're not paying for equipment to just sit there,
but the con is, basically, it's a room.
It's a piece of a data center that you have,
but that's about it.
It's just an empty space,
so if an emergency were to happen,
it's gonna take a long time to actually recover,
because you're gonna have
to actually order all the equipment,
you have to make sure you have funding available
to actually order the equipment to begin with.
Once you order the equipment,
there's typically lead times associated with that,
so it may take weeks, could take months,
to actually get that equipment in, so during that time,
obviously, no activity's taking place.
Next, we have a warm site.
So a warm site is relatively inexpensive.
It's cheaper than a hot site,
but it's a little more expensive than a cold site.
So as you can imagine, it sits in the middle.
So in a warm site, there's some basic equipment
already in place for basic communications,
typically, some type of network
and telephone communications and so forth.
So some equipment is there,
but it's not really ready for immediate switchover,
so the recovery time could be days to a week or more.
Again, just depends upon how much stuff you need
to move over.
So next. we have a hot site, and this, as you can imagine,
is expensive to actually very expensive.
The pros being it's a duplicate site.
We can switch over very quickly,
we could fail over to the other location relatively quickly,
if not real-time.
The cons being, however,
we have to maintain that duplicate infrastructure,
so we have to buy duplicates of everything.
If it's in our main data center,
we need to have a duplicate of that in the hot site,
so that way, when we migrate over, everything is the same.
So duplicate infrastructure, obviously,
is gonna have a cost associated with it,
the maintenance required and so forth.
A lot of times, you might have it for three to four years
or five years and never actually use it,
and then once that five years is up,
you may need to buy new equipment just to mirror
what you have in your primary data center.
So it's gonna be a constant battle
just to keep those things maintained,
but it gives you the quickest failover
in the event of an emergency.
And then we have cloud-based.
So cloud-based is an OPEX pricing model.
It's a service, DR as a service or cloud DR,
so it's managed by a provider.
So the pros are there's nothing for you to manage,
and from your perception, there's unlimited backup capacity.
Now, obviously, there's limits to that,
but from the customer's perception,
it's an unlimited capacity.
Some of the cons, the recovery times might be slower, again,
because now you're going out to the cloud versus on-prem,
so cloud connectivity can certainly be slower.
and also. there may be some confusion around the best type
or the best setup, best practices, whether it's on-prem,
off-prem, hybrid, multi-cloud and so forth,
so it may require more engineering
and more architecture resources
to make sure things are done properly,
to make sure those cloud providers are vetted also as well,
to make sure their security practices
are in line with yours and vice versa.
So speaking of disasters,
let's just take a look at a quick example.
Let's say we have a data center in Florida,
and then our backup data center is in Georgia.
Well, guess what?
If a hurricane comes through, there's a good chance
that hurricane would hit both locations,
so if we're trying to guard against natural disasters
and really get the best bang for our buck,
we may wanna move our secondary data center
to another geographic location,
somewhere where we're still close enough
to get roundtrip times that make synchronous replication
and synchronous connectivity possible, but not so far away,
like say, for instance, we moved all the way up to Colorado,
that may potentially be too far away
to give us full synchronous communication.
So again, that's gonna take some due diligence,
but as long as that exists and is in place,
then you have a lot of options as to where you can move,
but just don't make them so close together
that if a disaster does come,
it takes out both data centers.