So, having said all of that,
the name of the game is diversity.
So, that diversity applies to technologies, to vendors,
to cryptographic keys, and also to security controls.
So, what do I mean by all of that?
Well, let's take a look at technology diversity.
So, utilizing more than one type of technology
to accomplish a given task.
What this does is it safeguards against a bug
or a vulnerability,
being able to take down an entire system.
So, it provides a method of failback and failover
in the event of an incident.
And then, next we have vendor diversity.
So, vendor diversity helps safeguard,
basically, supply chain attacks and incidents.
It also guards against the vendor lock-in,
gives you more financial leverage,
because then you can then go back and forth between vendors
and have that compete with each other,
and also help safeguard against the business risk
of having all systems, all data, technology,
and knowledge in the hands of a single vendor.
Because then you have the potential,
if you have maybe an unscrupulous vendor,
or one that maybe just disappears overnight,
well, all of that intellectual property,
all of that tribal knowledge,
all of that good stuff, kinda goes out the window.
So, by spreading it across multiple vendors,
you safeguard, to an extent anyway,
against some of these things happening.
And the same thing applies to crypto and control diversity.
So, crypto diversity, basically rotating cryptographic keys,
and then using technology for more than one provider.
And controls diversity, so diversification ensures
less overlap, providing wider coverage.
So, let's talk about controls diversity.
So, antivirus, threat detection, ransomware prevention,
and so forth.
All of these things should be following
a defense-in-depth methodology,
so layer technologies basically.
So, we're talking about layer technologies,
we don't necessarily want
three or four different technologies
that do exactly the same thing.
So, as an example, let's say we have Technology A,
and Technology A has a 75% success rate; or antivirus,
or a threat detection,
could be ransomware protection or whatever.
So, we say, "Hey, that's great,
but let's make sure we diversify."
So, let's go ahead and buy Technology B.
That also has a 75% success rate.
Again, that's great, but we're following defense in depth,
and we wanna have controls diversity.
So, we also go out and buy Technology C,
also with a 75% success rate.
Well, if all three of these have the same 75% success rate,
you'll see they pretty much correlate with one another,
and they all find or address the exact same issues.
What ends up happening is we have very little overlap.
So, that gives us, great, a 75% success rate,
but it also gives us a 25% failure rate.
So, if those three technologies are not tightly correlated,
we spread out a little bit, and our risk goes down
because we now have three different technologies
that aren't exactly similar.
So, something that Technology A may not cover,
Technology B might find,
or Technology C might find, and so forth.
So, the less correlated they are, as we see,
they become more spread out,
and then our coverage increases.
So, having multiple technologies is great,
as long as they're not identical to each other.
So, it seems kind of counterintuitive,
but the less correlated they are with one another,
it actually spreads our coverage wider
and gives us a better chance of picking up those threats,
whether it be antivirus, anti-malware, ransomware,
and so forth.