So putting it all together, proper procedures,
documentation, and practice is what really what heightens
the degree of success when responding to incidents.
So just think of some of the teams
that are necessary within your environment
to make sure that business continues
starting with executive management, to business leadership
to the various lines of business, IT operations
and infrastructure folks.
Obviously we need security operations to make sure
the incident is contained
and they actually find out how things happened
so they can guard against it happening again.
That's gonna involve engineering,
it's gonna involve our DevOps folks and so forth.
So all of these different teams need to know
where they fit within these processes.
And we'll talk next about the types of testing and exercises
where we engage these types of folks who walkthroughs,
and so forth to make sure that everyone's on the same page.
So when it comes to actually testing these things,
we have walkthroughs, we have communication plans,
we have simulations, we have partial exercises,
and then we have full exercises,
so let's talk briefly about each one of these.
So for a walkthrough, basically we create a plan
of how we're gonna respond to a specific incident,
and we read through the proposed plan.
So does it make sense?
Does it follow a logical path?
Is it understandable, and easy to follow
for those that must utilize it?
And understand that revisions may occur numerous times
as the plan is refined and improved.
So these things are kinda like reading a script,
like you're rehearsing ahead of time for a play
or for a movie, and they read through the script,
so that everyone is aware of what's happening.
Same thing here.
We wanna put our plan forth.
Everyone reads their piece of the puzzle,
that reads their lines if you will and then everyone
is aware of what everyone else needs to do
in a certain situation.
And then you can gauge, well, does this make sense,
or do we need to change this?
And so forth.
And then we have a communications plan.
So we have to make sure
that we ensure all relevant personnel, vendors,
and emergency responders are identified.
Verify accurate contact information, identify backups
and deputies for each key position, and then identify gaps
in response times and availability.
So in other words, are the right people in place
and is the response realistic?
Next, we'd have a simulation,
so also known as a table-top exercise.
So the objective is to be as real world as possible.
We inject some variability or randomness into the test
because disasters don't typically announce themselves
ahead of time, and we don't wanna do that here
as much as possible as well, right?
We wanna test the plan, not plan the test.
So if we can make it as real world as possible,
we have a higher chance for success
if and when we actually have to implement.
Next is a partial exercise,
so partial exercises are somewhat intrusive.
They will require people from various areas
throughout the organization.
Some actions will need to be taken
that may disrupt normal operations.
So it's not necessarily an awesome thing to do.
It's not everyone's favorite thing, obviously,
but these are necessary to make sure
that if and when disaster does strike,
you're actually capable of executing.
So we're basically preparing for disaster recovery,
short of a complete failover.
And then we have a full exercise.
So full exercises are most disruptive to the business.
So full exercises are, as you can imagine,
the most disruptive to the business.
Complete testing of the business continuity
and disaster recovery plans, complete failover of systems
to ensure continuity and should be performed at times
that are least intrusive to the company's operations.
If you're a 24/7 operation,
there's really not ever a good time to do that,
and a lot of companies actually don't
because it's so disruptive.
But if you are able to do that, even though it's a pain,
it's gonna pay dividends if and when disaster ever strikes
because you're gonna be that much more prepared.