So let's talk about the different types
of backups.
We have differential.
So differential is data that has changed
since the last full backup.
So the time to backup increases over time
because more and more data will change
since the last full backup.
But the time to restore is reduced
because we only require two backup media,
the last full and the differential.
Next, we have incremental.
So incremental backups is data that has changed
since the last incremental backup.
So the time to backup is reduced,
but the time to restore is increased
as all the incremental backups,
plus the last full backup is required.
And then a full backup,
which all data is backed up each time.
Kinda self-explanatory. And then we have snapshots.
So a snapshot is a point in time copy of data
that typically maintains pointers to the original data
rather than actually copying the data itself.
So snapshots typically take up very little space,
and they can be performed very quickly.
So let's look at the difference between incremental
and differential.
So here's an example, incremental backup schedule.
So here you see we have the backup type,
and then we have the days of the week, right?
And the effect.
So in this example, on Sunday, we do a full backup,
and then Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and on,
we do incrementals.
So as you can see, any changes since Sunday,
any changes since Monday, et cetera, et cetera.
So as you can imagine,
the backups themselves won't take very long
because we're only capturing changes from that previous day.
However, when it comes time to restore,
we have to restore the last full backup,
plus all of the incrementals.
On the other side of the coin, we have differential backups.
So again, backup type and the days of the week.
We have a full backup done on Sunday,
and then as you can see,
each day when we run a differential,
it captures all of the changes since the last full backup.
So as the days go on, the backups take a little bit longer,
because more and more things have changed.
But when it comes time to restore, however,
it's going to be much quicker
because all we have to do is the last differential
and the full backup.
So we only need two media.
So again, no matter which method you choose,
there's no right or wrong answer.
It's basically what is most appropriate
for your organization.