Okay, so as we've talked about,
we wanna make sure we're hardening the targets
within our environment to keep things as secure
and as available as possible
and also as challenging as possible
to our attackers or bad actors.
So a few things to keep in mind.
We wanna make sure that we minimize the attack surface.
So by doing so,
you can think of it as closing all the windows,
locking all the doors in the building,
so it doesn't do much good
if we have 10 locks on the front door,
I think I've talked about this one before,
if we have a side window or the back door wide open.
So by removing the things we don't need,
that minimizes the chance
that we'll forget to check something,
forget to patch something, and so forth.
Next, implement strong access controls.
So we wanna make sure that we're utilizing our back
or role-based access controls
or rule-based access controls
and also MFA or multi-factor authentication, where possible.
Also regularly patch and update.
So keep all software
and all operating systems up-to-date
with the latest patches,
especially for the ones that are rated high
or critical within the environment.
And then also enable monitoring and logging,
so IDS or IPS systems, SIEM systems,
and other monitoring tools,
which includes actually reviewing the logs.
So as I'm sure you can imagine,
it doesn't do much good to capture all these logs
if we never look at them.
So it's important to review them periodically
to make sure we're capturing and identifying anomalies
or things of interest within those logs.
So as I mentioned at the outset,
we won't go into details about these
because we've talked about most of these things already,
or we will talk about them in other areas.
But I just wanna call it out here
since we're talking about hardening targets.
The things I just mentioned in the last slide,
think to yourself, how can you apply these things
to all of these different devices within your environment?
Mobile devices, workstations,
switches, routers, and so forth.
All the things that are typically within your environment
need to have the same level of rigor
and the same level of attention
because, again, the smallest thing,
an IoT device, as an example,
could be just the foothold
that a bad actor needs to gain access to the network.
Now, not everyone will have ICS
or SCADA systems to deal with or perhaps embedded systems
or real-time operating systems,
but IoT devices are everywhere nowadays.
And of course, the rest of these things
are in pretty much every environment.
So it's important as you go through this course
that you apply the things you're learning
to all of these different devices.
So by internalizing the concepts
that you're learning here
and making sure you apply them
to each and every device within your environment
will go a long way
to helping keeping your organization secure.