Okay, next up,
let's talk about wireless devices.
So wireless device considerations.
There are three concepts that I want you to be familiar with
when we're talking about wireless device
installation considerations.
So that is site surveys.
Now, a site survey is a walkthrough of a facility
to visually confirm locations
or potential hotspots or impediments,
so things like very thick concrete walls or steel walls,
steel beams, perhaps things, furniture
or anything else that may impede the signal.
By doing a walkthrough of that location or that site,
you can kind of get an idea
where you may need to put antennas or repeaters
or things to boost the signal
so that you have coverage throughout the environment.
You can couple that with something referred to
as a heat map.
So a heat map is software that can visually show
where that signal is weak or non-existent.
And you can see here to the left, on the laptop,
we have software that's showing we have green spots,
yellow spots, maybe some red spots.
It will show exactly where the signal is strong
and where it is weak
as you walk through that specific environment,
so that way you know you need to add additional antennas
or something to repeat the signal,
or you may be able to move things around
within the environment rather than rewiring
the entire cabling infrastructure,
or trying to move walls, or things like that.
So it may be easier just to move the furniture around,
or appliances, perhaps.
But either way, it gives you a visual representation
of how the signal will appear
or how it will be utilized within that environment.
And then we have Wi-Fi analyzers.
So that's, again, hardware or software
that allows a tech to walk through a site
and identify the areas of weak signal
and also what channels are best.
And we'll talk more about the different channels
and so forth in just a moment.
But understand there are tools in place
that allow you to go through your environment and see,
"Okay, where's the best signal, where's the worst signal?
And then what do I need to do to adjust appropriately?"
So as just mentioned,
antenna placement is critical for proper coverage.
So if you're only doing one antenna,
it should be placed near the center
of the area to be covered,
so that way you have kind of uniform coverage throughout.
If you're doing some type of a mesh system,
you may place antennas every so often,
every couple hundred feet, or just outside of an area
of poor coverage due to walls limitations
or some type of structural component
that makes that signal hard to pass through, right?
You may have some things in the environment
that require additional antennas, which is fine.
And just so you're aware,
antennas can be internal or external.
The other thing to consider is antenna signal strength.
So antennas are rated in terms of gain value,
or the dBi numbers.
So a wireless antenna with a 10 dBi would be 10x stronger
than a 0 dBi, kind of goes without saying.
And also, some wireless routers provide control
over these things, so you can turn power levels or down,
depending upon the environment.
So you would use these things to combine with a site survey
to identify optimal placements.
And you might say to yourself,
"Okay, well, great, if it has power adjustments,
why wouldn't I just turn it all the way up?"
Well, you might do that, and that might be fine,
but you may also be trying to not let that signal pass
too far out past your actual building.
If you're in an apartment building
or you're in a shared office space,
you don't wanna necessarily have that signal pass
into other rooms that you don't own or control,
or perhaps pass out into the parking lot of the building
where people can sit out in the parking lot
and try to hack your network without being seen.
You know, things along those lines.
So the antenna signal strength should be adjusted optimally
so that it gives you coverage where you need it,
but not too strong that it goes out into other areas
that you don't intend it to be.