So when we're talking about BYOD,
some concerns to be aware of.
So BYOD, standing for bring your own device.
This is great for employees
as it allows for personal choice,
but it's a security challenge for security professionals
because we now have to understand
all the different devices in our network.
Nothing's quite standardized.
So the security challenge that many employers face
is they need to understand the nuances
of all of these different platforms,
patch management, and so forth.
And as I mentioned, MDM software can help with this
because you can install this software
on someone who has their own device,
containerize that to a degree
or cordon off a section of that phone for corporate use,
and the data won't mingle.
So the personal device doesn't have access to corporate data
and vice versa,
it allows an employee to use that device
for both work and personal usage.
However, the organization still has control
over that device.
It can remotely wipe that device if it were to get lost,
stolen, compromised, and so forth.
And then a few deployment models that we should be aware of.
We have BYOD, which we talked about, bring your own device.
Challenges center around with monitoring,
with patch management,
security leaks, access to data.
And we talked about MDM being a way to solve
some of those challenges.
And then we have COPE or C-O-P-E,
corporate owned, personally enabled.
So that basically bridges the gap
by providing corporate owned resources
that employees can use for personal tasks.
And then we have CYOD or choose your own device.
So this enables employees to choose from a list
of company approved choices.
So it gives employees some flexibility,
but it provides a subset of devices
so that way the company doesn't have as much to manage,
security doesn't have as much to manage
and try to figure out how things work
and the nuances between.
So it's basically the best of both worlds.
So getting back to BYOD,
which is one of the more popular choices.
Some concerns we need to be aware of.
And I'm just gonna put all these out here, right,
I'll just kind of go through these real quick.
And just understand that all of these considerations
are big deals for security.
All of these things should be called out very specifically
in the corporate policies,
so that way the employees aware of what's what,
they understand what they can and cannot do,
and then it also removes any ambiguity
if and when issues were to arise.
So I bring all of these things up
to make sure that you're thinking about these
within your own organization
to make sure that your corporate policies
are addressing each and every one of these things,
because sooner or later,
you're bound to run into these issues in one way or another.
So an acceptable use policy that's reviewed by the employee,
the user accepts those policies,
and then tools should be put in place to monitor adherence
to all of those policies.