Now as far as connection methods go
for mobile devices, there are a number of ways
to make a connection,
although we'll focus on the ones
I have highlighted here in pink.
Cellular, WiFi and Bluetooth.
So as far as cellular connectivity is concerned,
mobile phones have numerous potential security risks.
So what if the phone has no password or no pin?
Anyone could pick up that phone
and access any of the data on that phone.
So from a security perspective,
it's imperative that we require everyone
that uses a corporate device to have these things set.
Also, mobile devices that are unpatched,
whether it's at the OS level or the application level,
as we know, security vulnerabilities are discovered daily.
So we have to have mechanisms in place
to patch not just our laptops and desktops and servers,
but also our mobile devices.
And in the risk of jailbreaking,
or rooting that mobile device, and in doing so,
a user can circumvent the security controls
that are put in place.
So there also needs to be mechanisms in place to make sure
that doesn't happen, or if it were to happen,
that device can no longer connect to our corporate network.
We'll talk about jailbreaking and routing in another module,
but just understand that when that happens,
it allows for the installation of unauthorized applications,
which can make it much easier to install malware,
viruses and so forth.
So it's a big deal to make sure our mobile devices
are secured properly.
So some methods to secure mobile devices
and cellular communications.
Make sure we have proper authentication.
And also two factor authentication.
We've talked about MFA or multi-factor authentication.
Also verify and authenticate downloaded applications.
Make sure we have anti-malware software installed
on those mobile devices.
Proper configuration of firewalls
and also VPNs on those devices.
And then also remote disable or remote wiping capabilities.
So if a phone is lost or stolen or otherwise compromised,
the administrators can remotely wipe that device.
And also make sure that encryption is enabled.
Most mobile devices have this capability
and most MDM software has this capability as well.
Device security in general.
Mobile devices pose a number of security challenges
we've talked about.
What if that device is lost or stolen?
What if that phone is compromised while on public WiFi?
What can we use to prevent that?
A VPN is our best bet.
So that way when they're accessing the network,
while at a coffee shop or an airport
or any type of public WiFi,
they prevent eavesdropping on those communications.
Also, asset tracking needs to be put in place
so that, again, if that device is lost or stolen
or otherwise compromised, we can track it so we understand
where it's at and what it's being used for.
And then application management.
Administrators can define what applications
can be installed on that mobile device,
what information can be shared between applications,
and then also make sure that those applications are updated
in a timely fashion to reduce our attack surface
and to mitigate vulnerabilities.
So as mentioned, corporate policies need to be enforced,
such things as such, things as strong passwords,
lock screens, or screensavers.
So if the phone is not used for a minute or two minutes
or whatever your policy might be, it automatically locks
and requires a pin or password
or some type of biometrics to unlock that phone.
Also, disabling of unnecessary services,
we've talked about that before as well.
Disabling unnecessary services shuts down ports
and then ultimately reduces the attack surface.
And then also application and software control,
which you've talked about.