Hey, everybody. Welcome back to Pluralsight.
I'm your instructor, Christopher Rees,
and in this module we'll be talking
about security implications of proper hardware,
software, and data asset management.
So let's go ahead and take a look at what we'll cover.
So first off, we have the acquisition
and procurement process.
We'll be talking about assignment and accounting,
such as ownership and classification.
We'll talk about monitoring and asset tracking,
and that deals with inventory and enumeration.
And then we'll talk about disposal and decommissioning,
and a few things to keep in mind there
around sanitization, destruction,
certification of that destruction or sanitization,
and then data retention.
So we don't need the deep dive slide that I usually show,
so let's go ahead and get started.
First off, why is this actually important?
Well, understanding what hardware, software, and data exists
within your organization, it's actually critical
to maintaining a strong cybersecurity posture.
And I'm talking about things like asset inventory,
vulnerability management, data classification,
incident response, compliance, access control,
we talked about baseline configuration,
and then optimization,
all the different resources and licensing.
So all of these things, as you can imagine,
are impacted if you don't understand
what actually hardware you have in the environment,
what software, where those things actually live,
what networking gear you have and so forth.
So just from an inventory perspective, it's critical
because licensing comes up,
you'll have to decommission those assets at some point.
They have a life cycle associated with them.
You have to plan and budget for all of the refreshes.
We have vulnerability management.
You have to make sure you understand
what's in the environment, so you can properly patch
and maintain proper security controls.
And then the other things we mentioned here
also come into play, and we'll talk about more of those here
and then also in other modules.
But compliance is a big one, compliance is often overlooked,
but if a breach occurs or if you get audited,
there can be massive fines and other repercussions,
potentially loss of business or interruption to business,
business continuity.
And then if we don't have proper baselines set,
how do you actually know when things
are out of compliance or not normal?