When it comes to monitoring
and asset tracking,
two things I want you to be aware of.
So we have inventory, which is kind of self-explanatory.
So it's basically understanding
what assets and devices exist and on what networks
and this helps assist
in monitoring and patching lifecycle activities,
and also licensing and compliance.
(presenter laughing)
And on its face, it sounds easy, but in a large environment
or even a mid-size environment and up,
as new infrastructure, new gear,
new applications and so forth are brought on all the time,
so it's really hard to understand what's in the environment
and if you don't have proper inventory measures in place,
and this really equates to automation.
So when a new thing is brought on board,
it automatically gets entered into some type of CMDB
or a configuration management database,
some type of inventory database,
or manually where necessary,
you have to have some type of inventory system
to understand what you have in your environment.
This becomes critical when it comes to patching,
when it comes to life cycling those activities,
requiring funding and so forth,
the labor associated with life cycling those activities,
licensing compliance and so forth.
But from a security perspective,
really understanding what's there for patching
and then also how to shut things down
or what needs to be shut down,
when, where, and how in the event of a breach
becomes very, very critical.
And then enumeration takes inventory a few steps further
because now we take each asset that's defined
by the inventory process and we actually collect
detailed information about each asset,
including active services, open ports,
user and group details, network relationships, and so forth.
So basically how things run, what's running on them,
what users access them,
how they're connected to the network,
how they're connected to each other and so forth.
These things combined help paint the picture
of all of the assets within the environment,
which again helps us plan, monitor, and react to incidents,
cyber breaches, and so forth.