Now, hopefully this isn't (laughs)
a picture that's too familiar to you.
You're not burdened and completely buried in data.
But this is something we need to talk about.
So as everyone is aware,
data is coming at us more furious than ever.
Data is being generated by so many more things these days.
Internet of Things is adding into that tremendously.
So this onslaught of data,
petabytes of data coming at us daily
really makes storing that data more critical day by day.
So we're talking about data retention.
So why is this really important?
Well, when we're talking about data retention,
there are some implications of improper data retention
that I want to call your attention to.
So when we're talking about compliance,
many industries and organizations are subject
to regulatory requirements
that mandate specific data retention periods.
So failing to adhere to those regulations can result
in legal consequences, financial penalties, or worse.
But data retention policies that are put in place
and adhered to can ensure
that an organization remains compliant with relevant laws,
regulations, again, I talked about consumer trust,
investor confidence, and all that good stuff.
Also, risk mitigation.
So storing data indefinitely poses unnecessary risks
because the longer the data is retained,
the more opportunities there are
for it to be compromised in a cyberattack or a data breach.
So implementing data retention policies
helps mitigate these risks
by specifying how long data should be kept
and where it should be securely disposed of.
And then we have resource management.
As I'm sure you're aware,
storing vast amounts of data can be costly
in terms of storage infrastructure,
operational expense, right?
Somebody has to manage and maintain those things.
By defining data retention policies,
organizations can optimize resource allocation
by only retaining data that's necessary
for business operations and,
of course, for compliance.
And then we have privacy protection.
We live in a data-driven world, as we all know,
and privacy is a significant concern.
So data retention policies can help protect us
and protect the privacy of individuals
by ensuring that personal data
is not kept longer than necessary.
So things like GDPR, CCPA,
and others are really bringing this to the forefront
and adding significant penalties
if these things are not adhered to properly.
And then we have E-discovery and investigations.
So in the event that your company's involved
in some type of legal dispute or an investigation,
having well-defined data retention policies
can simplify the process of both locating
and also retrieving relevant data.
And that, of course, equates to a savings in time,
resources, and also legal proceedings.
As we've talked about before,
we're also reducing the attack surface.
So the longer the data is retained,
the larger the attack surface for cyber criminals.
By deleting data that's no longer needed,
organizations can reduce the potential targets
for attackers, making that infrastructure more secure.
And then we have just general data hygiene.
So keeping data for an extended period of time
can lead to data clutter.
If we have troves and troves and troves of data,
just data overload,
trying to search through that to find something that we need
becomes more and more difficult.
So regularly disposing of outdated data
through a retention policy can help improve
that data hygiene, organization,
and to speed to finding what you need.
So putting all of these things into place
help make us more secure,
help reduce our attack surface,
help make us more organized,
help us reduce the blast radius
if something were to go south,
and just overall boost organizational efficiency,
and again, consumer confidence, investor confidence,
all things that help businesses thrive
and become more efficient.
All right, that brings us to the end.
A lot of good information around proper hardware, software,
and data asset management,
understanding why it's important.
Sometimes these things are overlooked,
but it's critically important that you understand
why they need to be put in place,
and you make sure you have proper processes
within your organization.
So hopefully you found it informative and you learned a lot,
but please stick around
because up next we have activities associated
with vulnerability management.