Okay, so whenever we see someone in a hoodie
looking at the screen, that can't be good.
Well, this time is no different.
So we're talking about the dark web.
And the dark web is an area of the internet
not accessible via normal web browsers.
And we'll dig into more detail about what this means.
So it requires special software or applications,
and we're talking about TOR, which is The Onion Router
or TOR Gateway, which is tor2web
or I2P, which is the Invisible Internet Project.
So you may or may not have heard the term dark web before.
You may or may not have visited those places before.
Although it sounds ominous
and there are a lot of illegal activities
that take place there, it's not 100% illicit
and we'll talk more
about how it got started here in just a minute.
We have the surface web,
which is pretty much what we're used to,
the deep web and then the dark web.
So the surface web are publicly accessible websites
that are indexed by search engines
like Google, Bing, Wikipedia, Reddit,
so on and so forth, right?
Publicly accessible websites
that people visit on a daily basis.
They're also available or accessible, rather,
via standard web browsers.
That actually comprises about 5%
of what's available on the internet.
So that's why I have the picture of the iceberg here.
Now, if we dig down below the surface,
then we come up with the deep web.
And the deep web is cloud storage, email inboxes.
It can be legal documents, research articles,
financial records and so forth.
So basically documents that are not indexed,
they're protected by some type of authentication mechanism,
passwords, maybe a paywall.
And then various security measures
like firewalls and so forth are put in place.
Although you can get to them with a typical web browser,
they're not indexed and they're not searchable.
And then below that, we have the dark web,
which is what I talked about just a moment ago.
So these things are not searchable, they're not indexed,
and they're not even reachable by normal web browsers.
So they're .onion sites,
they don't show up in any search engines,
and you need specialized software
to actually access these sites.
And the tools that you use encrypts and anonymizes traffic.
So it requires specialized software like the Tor browser.
So when you think about all of this, it's pretty amazing.
The actual percentages might change a bit.
No one knows exactly
how much is in the deep web and the dark web
because again, they're not indexed.
But general consensus is is roughly 95% below the surface,
and only about 5% is actually searchable
and indexable on the quote unquote surface web.
So just a bit more about the Onion Router or Tor
and the Onion Routing network.
So this was actually originally created in the mid-90's
by the US Naval Research Laboratory
to help secure US intelligence communications online.
So if you've ever used the Tor browser
to access a Tor network,
that Tor Project was actually founded in 2006.
And again, this was all based upon the technology
and the protocols established
by the US Navy back in the mid-90's.
So without going into too much detail,
let's just take a quick look at how this works.
So here we have a user
who actually wants to get to a destination.
And again, this is a destination that's on the dark web,
so it's a .onion website.
You can also use this to access surface web websites,
so it doesn't have to necessarily be just dark web.
You can use the Tor browser
and the Onion Routing network
to access publicly accessible websites
just like you would today.
It basically anonymizes your traffic,
and this comes into play with like journalists,
or if you're in a part of the world
that has heavy censorship,
then the Tor browser can be of benefit to you.
But again, in between the user
and the destination is the Tor network.
And then within that network, there are thousands of nodes.
A lot of folks will volunteer their computers
as middle nodes or entry or exit nodes on that network.
So a user using their Tor browser
will connect to the Tor network,
and they'll go through typically three nodes
to get from point A to point B.
Each node in the process
only knows of where it came from previously one hop before
and where it's going to one hop next.
So the nodes in between don't know
where that traffic originated from
or where it's actually ending up.
So the user will connect, it goes into an entry node.
The entry node then decides where to send it across one
or more middle nodes until it reaches an exit node
and then goes out to the destination.
Now you'll notice that the blue lines here are encrypted,
communications that's encrypted by Tor.
Once it hits an exit node, it is unencrypted
and sent on to the destination.
However, the destination does not know
the originating source of that data.
The only thing it knows about is the exit node.
So the communication, when it goes back to the user,
follows that same path.
It basically creates a circuit.
It goes back to the same path,
and the user will take that path
until that communication is done
or they decide to create a new circuit,
in which case it will spin up a different pathway.