Okay, shifting gears a bit,
let's talk about analysis.
So when we're doing our scans,
vulnerability scans, penetration testing, and so forth,
alerts from our different systems, all of that good stuff.
Well, as I'm sure you can guess,
scans are typically accurate,
but occasionally they can provide erroneous results.
So if you've ever had one of your systems come up
and give you a result that you're not actually expecting,
it can be pretty devastating.
So a false positive, no system is perfect,
and can occasionally generate false positives.
And what that basically means is,
it identifies a vulnerability that doesn't actually exist.
So in that case, as I mentioned,
results must be verified and occasionally audited
for completeness and for accuracy.
So with false positives,
the controls should be routinely audited and reviewed,
as I mentioned.
False positives end up being events
that really aren't incidents,
and this could result from anomalies
that deviate from normal behavior
but really aren't actually an issue.
And to make sure
that we're not spinning up resources unnecessarily,
we should review these things
to ensure policies are set up properly.
Because as I mentioned,
false positives can create excess work
and also minimize attention when real incidents occur.
So if we're getting false positives
over and over and over again,
it's much like the old story of the boy who cried wolf
or chicken little with the skies falling, right?
Over and over and over again.
It loses value and you ignore it, you think it's noise,
and then the one time you don't pay attention
is the time it's actually real.
And then of course, you got bigger issues on your hands.
The opposite of that would be false negatives.
So false negatives are the opposite of false positives.
So in that case, you actually had an incident,
but you failed to recognize it.
So that means controls are set up improperly
or it could be a result of operator error.
And just to understand, there are basically three types.
We have type one, two, and three errors.
So a type one error would be a false positive.
A type two error would be a false negative.
And a type three error
is where you arrive at the right conclusion,
but for the wrong reasons.
And that can create issues because you think you're right,
but it was basically luck (laughs)
that you arrived at that conclusion.
So you can't count on the fact
that you're able to duplicate that
or be right the next time.
So it's important to audit our systems, to test them,
to make sure that they're pulling up things properly,
that our policies are set up properly, configured properly,
and that we're alerting
and actually acting upon the alerts that we get.