Okay, switching things up a bit,
let's talk about CVEs and CVSS.
So CVE stands for Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures,
and it's a reference for publicly known information
about security vulnerabilities.
So it's maintained by Mitre Corporation,
and you can think of it a bit like a library.
And if you're under 30 (chuckles),
you may have never even been into a library,
but libraries have a card system and you can pull out a card
and you can look up any specific book
by a unique ID that's associated to that book.
Well, it's the same concept here.
So they associate unique IDs
and then it's further categorized by year.
So it makes it easy to find and identify
and sort through vulnerabilities
and we'll talk more about that in just a moment.
But there's a searchable website that you can visit.
And then next, we have the Comment Vulnerabilities
Scoring System or CVSS.
So this is an open framework
for communicating the characteristics
and the severity of software vulnerabilities.
And we'll talk more about CVSS in just a moment.
So as far as CVEs go, as you can see,
we have a naming convention here.
So it starts off with a prefix of CVE,
and then we have the year
that the vulnerability was discovered,
and then there's an arbitrary number of digits
or a unique identifier
that distinguishes that vulnerability within that year.
So as I mentioned, the Mitre Corporation
maintains a CVE database,
and you can see I have the web address
listed down here in the bottom,
but it's a searchable database.
So if you know the CVE number, you can put it indirectly
and learn about that CVE,
or you can search for a specific type,
a specific operating system,
a type of vulnerability and so forth.
So in this case, it is put in Ubuntu and it comes back
and show me the vulnerabilities
that are associated with that operating system.
Now, there are a number here.
So we see that there are over 7,000 CVEs
that match that search term.
So I can click on any one of these.
Let's take a look at 3297.
And we basically double click down
and look at more information
about that specific vulnerability.
So it will give us a description of that CVE,
a link to the CVSS scoring calculator,
which I'll talk about more in just a moment.
And then additional references.
So if you click on the link for Learn more
at the National Vulnerability Database or NVD,
it then gives us additional details
about that specific vulnerability,
which includes the CVSS scoring information.
So again, I'll drill down even further,
and you can see by the scoring here at 7.8,
it's rated as a high vulnerability.
So again, double clicking down even further,
it shows us the different parameters
that make up that score.
So the CVSS or the Common Vulnerability Scoring System
is maintained by the Forum of Incident Response
and Security Teams, or FIRST
and it's used to assess the principle characteristics
of a vulnerability and then produce a numerical score
reflecting its severity, and it's a scale one out of 10.
So that numerical score can then be translated into low,
medium, or high, and it helps organizations properly assess
that vulnerability and prioritize resources
to manage and to mitigate.
You can think of it much like if you're gonna take a trip
and you're looking at row conditions and weather
and all the different things that may factor into
how risky a specific path is to get from point A to point B.
So you're then able to gauge the best course,
but also understand that any specific thing,
how risky that thing is.
So it's much the same here.
So we're looking at things like
how easy is it to actually exploit that vulnerability?
Is it internal? Is it external? What's the blast radius?
What's the impact if it actually exploited and so forth.
So that way we can prioritize
and assign resources as necessary.
So again, when we're talking about
what to assign resources to and prioritizing,
there are some risk factors
and considerations that you should be aware of.
First off, we have exposure factor.
So that's the percentage of an asset that is exposed
to a threat or vulnerability.
So basically quantifies how much of the asset is at risk
in the case of an exploit.
So EF can vary depending
upon the nature of the vulnerability
and the specific security controls in place.
For example, if a vulnerability affects a web server,
the exposure factor might be 100%
if the entire server is exposed to the internet.
But if that server's behind a robust firewall,
the EF might be lower, let's say 20%
as only a portion of that server is exposed.
So next is environmental variables.
So environmental variables are factors that affect the risk
and impactable vulnerability in a specific context.
So these factors can include things
like organizational security policies, network architecture,
and the use of security controls.
Again, for example,
if an organization has a very strict security policy
in place and regularly updates its software,
the impact of a vulnerability may be reduced.
On the other hand, if the organization
has a very relax security posture,
then the impact could be more significant.
And then we have industry and organizational impact.
So this will vary widely by industry
and also by type of business, right?
We have regulatory and compliance things
that come into play.
Some industries such as healthcare or finance
have very strict regulatory requirements,
and a security breach could result in severe financial
and/or reputational damage.
Conversely, in other industries, the impact might be less.
For example, a personal blog or a small business website
may have a lower impact if compromised,
primarily affecting the owner and the visitors.
Either way, it's crucial to analyze these factors
to properly prioritize
which vulnerabilities required immediate attention
and resource allocation,
and which ones can be addressed later.