Next we have alert response and remediation.
So two things to cover here.
So we have quarantine and also alert tuning.
We need to make sure that we have proper alerting
and thresholds set and configured
that way it will help us to mitigate threats.
So it helps us to detect indicators of compromised or IoCs
and then take appropriate action.
We can quarantine a user, a user account, a file,
a process, a system.
So it depends upon what we're looking for,
and what our risk tolerance is,
and what systems we have set up and in place.
And as mentioned, these systems or these accounts
can be placed into an "isolated zone,"
again in air quotes, until an issue is remediated.
So that could be a segmented piece of a network,
a walled garden, or some type of DMZ, or an isolated zone.
So if someone were to take a laptop for instance
and connect to the network, it may be checked first
to make sure it's in compliance,
it has all its patches, and updates,
and antivirus updates and so forth.
And if not, it may be placed into an isolated zone
with limited connectivity,
it can only connect to the things
that can help it remediate those issues,
and then once those issues are remediated,
that device would then be allowed onto the network.
So as mentioned, one way we can do that
is network segmentation, which again,
we're trying to help contain the spread of threats.
When it comes to alert tuning,
a lot of things to talk about here.
So we wanna basically reduce false positives.
So many security monitoring tools generate alerts
based upon predefined rules or heuristics.
So sometimes these rules can trigger alerts
for benign or non-malicious activities
leading to false positives.
So this creates nothing but extra work
and basically wastes resources.
So alert tuning involves fine tuning the rules
to reduce false positives
to make sure that you and your security teams
are not overwhelmed with irrelevant alerts.
And then we have thresholds and threshold adjustments.
So security alerts often include thresholds
for certain events or activities.
So tuning these thresholds can help strike a balance
between sensitivity, in other words,
catching more potential threats,
and specificity, minimizing false positives.
So adjusting those thresholds may be necessary
to align with the specific risk tolerance
for your organization
and also the operational context within that organization.
So we wanna be specific enough that we're catching
just what we need, but not too specific
that we're missing things that might be important.
So it's a bit of a balancing act there.
Next we have alert correlation.
So in a complex IT environment,
multiple security alerts can be triggered simultaneously
across different areas, and that makes it really challenging
to try to identify the root cause of a security incident.
So alert tuning can involve setting up correlation rules
to help group related alerts into a single incident,
providing a more comprehensive view
of that threat landscape, and again,
helping reduce the noise.
From there, we have custom rule creation.
So some security monitoring tools
allow organizations to create custom detection rules.
So that alert tuning that we talked about
may involve developing and fine tuning custom rules
tailored to an organization's unique security requirements
and the specific threat landscape they face.
What may be commonplace to them
may not be very common at all to another organization.
So it's important to fine tune
specifically for your environment.
And then we have suppression rules.
So in some cases, certain alerts may be known
to be harmless in a specific context.
So alert tuning can involve creating suppression rules
to automatically filter out or suppress alerts
that are not of immediate concern.
And then lastly, alert prioritization.
So not all alerts are equally important.
Alert tuning can include assigning priority levels to alerts
based upon their severity and their potential impact.
So again, this helps you and your security teams
to focus on addressing the most critical threats first.
And then, across all of these, we wanna make sure
that we have a feedback loop in place.
So continuous improvement is a key aspect of alert tuning.
So we should constantly be looking at what we're doing,
maintaining a feedback loop where we can review
and analyze past alerts and incidents.
And then the insights that you gain from these reviews
can help inform further tuning efforts
to enhance the effectiveness
of the security monitoring system as a whole.