Hey everybody,
welcome back to Pluralsight.
I'm your instructor, Christopher Rees,
and in this module we'll be talking about
"Modify Enterprise Capabilities to Enhance Security."
So let's go ahead and take a look
at what we'll cover in this module.
We'll be talking about three main areas,
monitoring computing resources,
activities, and then tools.
And as usual, let's take a peek behind the curtain
and see what we'll cover in more detail.
The item in pink, you'll see DLP,
we've covered in a previous video,
so we'll go ahead and skip that one here
in the interest of time.
But I'll go ahead and pause here
so you can take a look at what we'll cover
and then when you're ready, let's go ahead and get started.
So what I'd like to do, let's cover why is this important?
"Security alerting and monitoring is the cornerstone
of an effective cybersecurity and risk management program.
So proper tooling, configuration, and reporting
is critical to risk mitigation, incident response,
and of course rapid remediation."
So we're talking about early detection of threats.
Effective monitoring and alerting systems can identify
suspicious activity early
and this allows security professionals to respond
before a threat becomes a breach.
So this can include detecting malware infections,
unauthorized access attempts,
and other indicators of compromise.
Next, we have compliance and regulatory adherence.
Many industries have regulations
that require continuous monitoring
and immediate incident reporting.
So proper security monitoring ensures
that an organization complies
with relevant laws and standards,
such as GDPR, HIPAA or PCIDSS,
which can help avoid legal penalties
and also reputational damage.
And then we also have improved incident response,
so when an alert is triggered,
a well-defined incident response plan can begin immediately.
So as you can imagine,
this reduces the time it takes to mitigate an issue,
which can limit damage.
Detailed alert information
helps in diagnosing the problem quickly and effectively,
again, enhancing security,
strengthening the security posture,
and making the organization safer overall.
And then we have operational efficiency,
so automating the monitoring and alerting process
helps in managing a large volume
of security events efficiently,
so it can filter out false positives
and also prioritize threats.
This allows security teams to focus
on the most critical issues,
which optimizes resource allocation
and of course also operational costs.