So we've talked about firewalls before,
but just a quick recap.
Firewalls are typically used to block
outside traffic from entering a network,
and that can be for corporate or for home.
But firewalls can also be placed internally
to segment one area from another.
This is sometimes referred to as a secure zone,
A PCI Secure zone might be an example.
We might wanna separate accounting from finance
or research and development, things along these lines.
So by segmenting the network,
it helps in a number of ways.
One, it helps to stop the spread of threats.
It slows things down, it segments it
so they can't jump from one network to the other.
It also allows us to segment sensitive areas of the network
that we wanna make sure folks don't have access
to from other parts of the network.
Again, accounting, finance, billing,
we'll talk more about that in just a moment.
So when it comes to firewalls, what we need to do,
we can tune to increase security,
and we can tune these things by the rules that we set up,
by what traffic is allowed in,
what traffic is allowed out in certain conditions,
ports, protocols, and so forth.
We can set up access lists,
and as I mentioned, to port and protocols.
So by defining these things,
we're able to fine tune the traffic
that goes through the firewall
without being so restrictive
that we end up blocking legitimate traffic.
And then, as I mentioned,
network segmentation is a big thing.
So we can set up screened subnets,
otherwise known as a DMZ,
or a demilitarized zone.
An example of that might be a PCI zone or PCI-DSS zone,
and as I mentioned, a secure area
that contains sensitive data.
So when it comes to security zones,
let's dig a little deeper into that.
So here we have a network diagram that shows
a number of different areas within our network.
We have a screened subnet that might be the area
where folks come in initially, otherwise known as a DMZ,
and that will contain web facing
or customer facing applications that face the internet.
So we have web browsers, email servers,
DNS servers, so on and so forth, right?
We may have additional firewalls,
we might have a second area
where folks come onto the network
and they're screened for compliance
before they're actually allowed
onto the bigger network at large.
But as folks are coming in from the outside,
they're gonna pass through that firewall.
Again, that's outside of the network
to the inside of the network.
We can also set up firewalls internal,
so we might wanna set up between the screen subnet
and maybe our storage and database.
We may wanna cordon off a vendor
or a third party zone where vendor applications
and appliances live, but they may be blocked
or secured from the rest of the network,
PCI zone, et cetera.