Okay, as far as firewalls go, let's go ahead
and do a quick demo of securing outbound traffic
with Azure Firewall.
Okay, so the lab that I'm using
for this demo is the Secure Access
to Virtual Networks on Azure Lab,
and I've set up the necessary components
in the first three challenges.
I won't walk through those just in the interest of time,
but what I did wanna show you is
basically securing outbound traffic with Azure Firewall,
securing traffic,
whether we're blocking inbound or outbound traffic,
and setting up rules is basically the same concept
from platform to platform,
so this is as good as any other.
So let's take a look at what's required
to secure outbound traffic from our Azure host to Google.
And I'll briefly demonstrate that
by setting up rules properly, I can secure outbound traffic
and allow connectivity from my host to google.com,
but not to microsoft.com.
Okay, so we start off in the Azure portal,
and we'll basically go ahead and create a firewall,
and again, this lab walks you through
step by step how to do this,
so some of these things are kind of pre-filled out
or predetermined, but it gives you
the idea of what's necessary.
So we're creating a new firewall rule policy.
I'm naming it Azure Firewall Policy.
I'm using an existing network
that's already been set up ahead of time,
as I mentioned in the lab.
From here, I'll use the public IP, again,
that was set up ahead of time.
Go ahead and review, create, and that will go ahead
and set up the firewall for me and I'll skip ahead
because it takes a few moments to do these things.
So in the interest of time, we'll let these things zip by.
So a deployment in progress,
and then all of a sudden we're done.
And now we'll create a route from our host
to Google, and we're basically
using an existing resource group,
we're setting up our region, giving it a name,
go ahead and review, and then we'll create.
Again, that takes a few moments, so we'll let that skip by.
Alrighty, that has succeeded.
Go back to the route table,
and now create or add a new route.
I'll give it a name, we'll give it a destination type,
and then here we're basically saying any destination.
Then we put in the next top address,
which is the private IP address that I copied a moment ago.
So basically saying, send any traffic to firewall.
Here we're now associating it with an existing subnet,
but we need to associate it with our backend subnet
and then also the front end subnet.
So we associated one to the front end.
We'll repeat the process and associate it
to our backend subnet,
go back to our Azure firewall rule policy,
and now we will add a rule collection.
We'll give it a name,
give it a collection type of application.
We'll give it a priority of 100, so it applies first.
The lower the number, the higher the priority.
So here we're basically saying this is gonna allow access
to Google APIs,
and we have two different IP addresses that we want
to be able to connect from in this example.
And then the protocols that will connect over,
so HTTP and also HTTPS,
and we'll deploy that,
and again, takes a few moments for that to actually process.
Okay, so now that it's actually processed, I'll go back
to one of my SSH sessions.
I have two virtual machines that I can log into.
So this one here, I'll break out of what I was doing
and I'll issue a W-get just to test connectivity
to google.com.
And you'll see we have an HTTP request sent
and a response message of 200 saying it was okay,
so we know we have connectivity.
Now we tried to connect to microsoft.com,
and we can see there is no connectivity.
Next, we'll try to connect via Google APIs
to see if we have connectivity to the API service,
and you see that has succeeded as well.
So a very quick example of how we can use firewall rules
to limit outbound connectivity.