So next we have EDR,
or Endpoint Detection and Response.
So a few key features.
So we basically have the ability to monitor
and collect activity data from endpoints.
We can analyze that data to identify threats,
patterns or IOCs, or indicators of compromise.
Also, automatically respond to identify threats,
to remove or mitigate them,
notify appropriate teams, and so forth.
And also launch or further enhance forensics
and analysis tools to research threats
and to search for suspicious activities.
So taking that one step further,
we also have something called XDR.
So we have endpoint detection and response,
which we just talked about, which focus on endpoints,
but we also have XDR,
which is extended detection and response,
and this provides a more integrated and comprehensive view
across various data sources and environments.
Here we have not just endpoints,
but we have servers, desktops, mobile devices, firewalls,
IoT, or internet of things, email systems, network devices,
cloud infrastructure, and so forth.
All of these things reporting in to our XDR system,
and it basically gives us some additional functionality,
like I said, XDR systems provide a more integrated
and a more comprehensive view.
They're also capable of identifying more complex threats
that span across different parts of the IT infrastructure,
so not just endpoints.
However, implementing an XDR solution can be more difficult
due to its broader scope and also the need for integration
across various tools and various platforms,
so just something to keep in mind.
But just for your own information,
if you'd like to dig in a bit
and check out some XDR platforms
or do some research on your own, there are a few,
CrowdStrike Falcon XDR, Microsoft Defender for Endpoint,
Palo Alto makes an XDR solution,
Trend Micro has one called Vision One,
and Symantec Endpoint Security,
which is now part of Broadcom, all have XDR solutions
that you might be interested in researching further.
Okay, that brings us to the end of this module.
Hopefully you learned a lot and had some fun.
Please stick around because up next we'll talk about
implementing and maintaining identity and access management.