So when it comes to provisioning
and de-provisioning user accounts.
So we need to make sure that users are given
only the access they need, right, least privilege.
We'll talk more about that in just a moment.
Also, automate where possible to ensure consistency
to make sure we're doing the same thing each and every time.
De-provisioning takes the opposite approach
and it ensures employees who leave
have their access revoked immediately.
Right, we don't wanna necessarily have users walking around
with access after they left the company.
That would be bad.
And it also helps to maintain compliance.
I mean, that's just general good housekeeping.
It also helps if we're ever audited,
and, of course, it helps maintain security.
So just a quick recap.
So when we're provisioning a user account,
we wanna make sure we adopt
the principle of least privilege,
make sure that the permissions
are appropriate for the current role.
And we also wanna make sure that we assign permissions
at the group level versus the individual user.
It just makes things a lot easier
when people shift roles
and move from one group to another,
like finance to accounting, or HR to marketing,
or, you know, whatever the case might be.
They leave one role and they go into another.
Permissions are automatically removed from the one role,
and then as soon as they get dropped into the other group,
permissions are automatically granted.
So it makes administration much easier.
And then temporary or contract users
should have an end date set upon creation if known.
We talked about that just a moment ago.
When it comes to de-provisioning, basically same thing,
access removed upon leaving the company,
we wanna reduce the risk of unauthorized access
or, of course, data breaches.
We wanna make sure we ensure compliance
with various regulations depending upon what they are.
And again, it's gonna vary from company to company.
And then also wherever possible,
automate to remove access across systems
so that way we make sure
that all of their access across all the things they may need
are removed upon leaving.