Okay, so biometric factors,
we have such things as fingerprint scanners,
retinal scanners, iris scanners, voice recognition.
There's a number of others as well.
So without going into the nitty gritty
of how these things work, just understand
that biometrics in general allow for identification
of a specific user based upon very unique factors.
Like I said, a fingerprint or a retina scan,
things along those lines.
And they can be used with other pieces of information
as well to provide multifactor authentication,
which is oddly enough coming up next.
So multifactor authentication.
So two or more pieces of information used to authenticate.
So it can be a pin, a password, a fingerprint.
But the key takeaway here,
it must be from different categories.
So a password and a pin would only actually be one factor
because they both fall under as something you know.
So it has to be from different categories.
And we'll talk about that in just a second here.
So authentication factors.
So something you know, as I mentioned,
that could be a password, a secret, a pin.
And then we have something that you have,
and that could be a smart card,
a token, a two factor dongle,
and then something that you are,
fingerprint, retina scan, et cetera.
So again, if someone had a password
and a pin, that would not be two factor.
If they had a smart card and a token,
then that's not two factor, (laughs) right?
If we're using fingerprint
and retina scan, nope, not two factor.
So even though they're two different things,
they fall under the same category.
So if we want true multifactor authentication,
we need one from two different categories.
And just so you're aware, there are a few other
authentication factors that I wanna call to your attention.
So one is somewhere you are,
and that can be location based, IP address,
geolocation and so forth.
And this is sometimes used not as much as
the first three we mentioned,
but they do come into play.
And the other is something you do.
So it could be some type of behavior analytics,
gait analysis, how you walk even,
I mean, it gets pretty crazy.
So something that you do could be a signature,
a pattern of behavior, language, slang, the way you type.
You may have typos that you consistently do,
or you put three dots after a specific words
or things along those lines that could
identify you uniquely, not necessarily in and of itself,
but combined with other factors could
paint a picture that is very unique.