Hey, everybody.
Welcome back to Pluralsight.
I'm your instructor, Christopher Reese.
And in this module,
we'll be talking about automation and orchestration
to secure operations.
So let's go ahead and take a look
at what we'll cover in this module.
We'll be talking about the various use cases
of automation and scripting,
talk about the benefits of automation and scripting,
and other considerations that we need to keep in mind.
So, as usual, let's pull back the covers a bit
and talk about the three main topics.
You can see all the subtopics covered here.
Take a moment to look things over,
and then when you're ready,
let's go ahead and get started.
Alrighty, so when we talk about the use cases
of automation and scripting,
it's pretty well known that automation rocks
as long as it works.
So one of the first use cases is user provisioning.
So let's talk about how automation
can enhance that specific task.
So automation can enhance, of course, accuracy,
it can reduce errors, and also increase productivity.
It streamlines the process of creating, managing,
and also deactivating user accounts.
So we can create templates
and assign permissions to groups versus users.
I've mentioned that one a few times in the past,
and I'll reiterate it again.
It's definitely a good idea
to assign permissions to groups whenever possible.
And a few popular tools that we can use to do this
are Microsoft PowerShell and Ansible.
And as I always say,
I'm not endorsing one tool over the other.
Just giving you an idea of some things to dig into
if you want to research further,
and of course look at other options as well.
When it comes to commissioning and decommissioning.
Now, here I'm talking about assets,
but the same thing goes for user accounts, right?
So I'll talk about it here first manually,
just so you understand some of the tasks
that go into commissioning
and, of course, decommissioning assets.
So when we bring a new asset on board,
we wanna make sure we have things
like the end-of-service date.
The day something arrives,
we wanna make sure you have a good idea
of when that thing is gonna be leaving as well.
That way we depreciate the asset properly,
but we also can plan ahead of time
so that we know six months out or maybe even longer
how long it's gonna take to get off of that asset
and we start that decommissioning process.
Automation tools can help a lot with that as well,
depending upon what the asset is,
the level of effort and so forth.
But anyway, the end-of-service date.
Also, security scans.
When a new asset is brought on board,
we wanna make sure we scan them,
and we wanna make sure that that asset
is now in our inventory
so it gets scanned again periodically over time.
We also wanna make sure we have a MOP,
or a method of operation,
for daily operations
so we understand how the thing works
and how to troubleshoot it,
who to reach out to if things go south and so forth.
And then also make sure we have into our auditing schedule.
When it comes time to decommission an asset,
we need to make sure that all the data
is migrated off of that platform onto a new platform,
or decommission the data as well
depending upon what it is.
Old data is no longer needed,
of course, then get rid of it,
asset is wiped and purged, as per policy,
and then the asset is disposed of properly,
whether you have an internal disposal team
or you outsource that.