When it comes to security groups,
security groups are used
to control access to network resources,
as we've talked about before,
inbound and outbound traffic rules, file permissions,
and so forth.
So again, automation helps a lot here as well.
Popular tools for that might be AWS IAM,
or AWS Firewall Manager.
We also have Azure network security groups,
and of course, the old tried and true, Active Directory.
So by properly leveraging automation,
we simplify a lot of these tasks,
ensure they're done consistently,
the same way each and every time,
and of course, that reduces errors
and de-risks the environment.
So as far as security groups go,
imagine having this times 10, times 100, times 1,000,
and trying to assign permissions to each
and every user.
Right, we have resources on the network.
All of these different users need access
to different resources.
If we try to do that one by one individually,
especially as they move roles
or they move within the company,
that becomes extremely unwieldy
and prone to error, prone to risk.
So by putting those users into groups,
as I mentioned before,
and then assigning permissions there,
we can assign permissions to the group and not to the user.
So as a user moves from one group to another,
permissions are taken away from that user
from one group they just left,
and then the new permissions are added to them
into the group they just entered into.
So again, it automates and reduces risk.
When it comes to security automation,
automating the process of implementing rules,
enforcing policies and making changes,
so this can be based on triggers or policy violations.
So if this happens, then do that.
If someone tries to access something
they perhaps normally don't do,
or perhaps from an unusual device
or an unusual location,
maybe the other side of the country
or the other side of the world,
these things can trigger policy violations,
and then can spin up additional actions.
So that can drastically reduce the time to remediate
and also mitigate risk by human error.
The flip side of that, however,
is these things can be exploited as well
to shut things down,
denial of service attacks, and so forth.
So if an attacker knows that, hey,
if we have X, Y, Z happen,
they're going to automatically shut down ports.
They're gonna automatically close the gates.
Well, let's do a DDoS attack
to make them automatically shut down ports,
and basically take their website or some service offline.
So there's a fine line, obviously.
It needs to be tweaked
to make sure that it provides security,
but is not easily exploitable,
and that's basically a never-ending battle.