So some other considerations to think of.
All right, when it comes to complexity,
automation can obviously introduce significant benefits,
but it can also introduce complexity,
especially in very large or very intricate IT environments.
So managing and maintaining automation scripts
and workflows can become challenging.
Complex automation solutions
may require skilled professionals and personnel
to design, implement, and troubleshoot.
So just because you have something automated
doesn't mean you can say goodbye everyone.
Have a nice day.
You've been released to industry, right?
We still need folks there when things break.
Automating doesn't mean you let people go.
It means you let them do higher level tasks,
but you still need that information, that skillset,
and that travel knowledge
so that when things actually do break,
people understand how to do things manually.
It's like if you've ever gone to a fast food restaurant
and the computer breaks,
the people at the register,
they don't know how to make change,
assuming you're one of the few people
that actually use cash anymore.
But all the manual processes seem to have evaporated,
and those skills are kind of going along with it.
So we don't want that to happen in our IT environment.
Also, when it comes to cost,
implementing automation can incur upfront costs, obviously,
including investments in tools and training
and of course, development efforts.
However, in the long run, automation often results
and typically will result in cost savings
by reducing manual labor,
by minimizing errors, reducing toil,
and improving resource utilization.
Organizations should obviously carefully evaluate
return on investment to make sure it's worth it.
But 9 times out of 10,
if it's a process that's done
more than say three or four times,
automation brings on benefits.
Now, one thing to keep in mind is a single point of failure.
So over reliance on automation
can create a single point of failure, right?
That's obviously not good.
So in other words, if that automation system
or scripts happen to fail,
that can disrupt critical processes.
So implementing redundancy
and failover mechanisms for automation
is essential really to mitigating risk.
Then we have technical debt.
So rushed or poorly designed automation solutions
can lead to technical debt.
And that basically refers to accumulated inefficiencies,
suboptimal designs,
or shortcuts in the automation code or process.
So in other words, you may try to shortcut something
and jam it in there to automate a process,
but it ultimately ends up making things more complex
and increases the amount of time to get something done
because you're constantly having to fix something.
So that's not good either.
So we need to make sure that we do things the right way.
As a wise man once said,
"If you don't have time to do it right once,
what makes you think you're gonna have time to do it twice?"
So make sure we do it right the first time.
And then last but not least, ongoing supportability.
So automation solutions
require ongoing support, obviously, right?
We can't be set once and forget about it.
As technologies and requirements change,
automation scripts
and workflows also need updating periodically.
So failing to keep things up to date
can lead to security vulnerabilities and operational issues.
So definitely make sure you allocate resources
for ongoing support
and regular reviews of the automation process.
Okay, that brings us to the end of this module.
Another jam-packed one, full of information goodness.
Hopefully, you had fun. I learned a lot.
Stick around, however,
because next up, we have incident response activities.
I'll see you in the next module.