Alrighty.
So next up, let's talk about root cause analysis.
And basically we're talking about going down rat holes.
(instructor chuckling)
And this is what this poor guy's about to embark upon.
As soon as you peel back the onion,
you realize it's usually a thousand layers deep.
So one thing leads to another when we're doing an RCA
or root cause analysis.
So what we're really trying to do is determine the reason
why something happened,
not just basically fixing the symptom,
but understanding the underlying cause
that actually created the issue.
The one constant that's within IT is that it depends.
So it's really a matter of the situation.
It's a matter of the complexity of the issue,
how big the organization is, you know,
how much infrastructure is involved, so on and so forth.
But more often than not, when you're with a larger company,
you'll engage vendors to come in and help with the RCA.
And again, depending upon the size of the organization,
you may have these things worked out ahead of time via SLAs
so that you have a service level agreement that states,
okay, if an RCA happens or an event happens
and we need an RCA, it will be a five day or a 10 day
or a 15 day, you know,
whatever the case may be in your specific situation,
but you have a turnaround time.
So you'll get that information back
and they may request logs, they may request different pieces
of information from, whether it's a hardware
or software issue, whether it's storage, network,
compute, firewall, so on and so forth.
Every situation will be slightly different,
but what we're basically doing is, as the name implies,
getting to the root of the issue.
So the steps involved, we're gonna do data collection,
as I mentioned, then we would do problem identification.
They would do some type of cause analysis
and generate then a solution as to what needs to happen.
And typically with vendors,
they're gonna say, oh, it's not my fault.
It's their software or their piece of network,
or their piece of hardware.
So sometimes there's some finger pointing back and forth
before you actually get to the true root cause
and someone actually takes ownership of that.
But once that happens, then the solution is generated,
then we're gonna implement that solution
and then we need to monitor and verify
that did in fact fix the issue.
And then of course, documentation and reporting.