All right, so next up,
let's talk about something a little more exciting,
and talk about threat hunting.
So with threat hunting, we're taking a proactive,
cybersecurity approach that involves actively searching
for signs of malicious activity, even when there are no IOCs
or indicators of compromise present.
And we're talking about throughout the network,
throughout the various systems, and also the data itself.
So some threat hunting examples.
So here we have our bad actor,
and one example might be a threat hunter
notices that an unusual pattern of outbound network traffic
originating from a specific internal system.
So upon investigation, they discover that this system
has been compromised and is communicating
with a known, malicious IP address.
So obviously that's no good.
So once discovered, immediate action should be taken,
or the decision might be to monitor for a period of time
and see what's being exfiltrated
or attempted to be exfiltrated,
or what the nature of the activity is.
So it's not necessarily bad
to not take things down right away.
You have to be very confident and very clear
that you're not allowing things to happen
that could have an even bigger impact later down the road.
So in other words, the rule of thumb is typically,
when you identify malicious activity,
we wanna shut that down as quickly as possible.
Another scenario might be a privileged escalation event.
So through threat hunting, the threat hunter observes
that a regular user account is attempting
multiple failed login attempts on various systems.
So this behavior suggests a potential insider threat,
or perhaps, a compromised account.
So again, closely monitoring, disabling the account,
contact with the user are all possible next steps,
again, depending upon what your course of action is,
and if you just wanna kind of wait and see what transpires,
or if you wanna just shut them down
and take them offline immediately.
And then some of the tools that we can use
to aid in our investigation and also in our detection
are things like SIM,
security information and event management.
So SIM systems like Splunk, IBM, QRadar, or Elastic Security
can aggregate and analyze data from multiple sources.
And again, alerts of all different types,
it could be SNMP traps, it could be application alerts,
different thresholds that we have set
for compute, storage, network,
all those things can help alert
and then point our focus in a specific direction.
Network traffic analysis, so tools like Wireshark and Zeke
can also help analyze network traffic
for unusual or suspicious patterns.
Threat intelligence feeds, another big one.
Threat intelligence platforms and feeds,
like Threat Connect can provide valuable insights
into known threats and indicators of compromise.
So I can't stress enough
the importance of threat intelligence because alerts,
things we get from our SIM systems, network analysis,
all these things are good for vulnerability assessments,
all that stuff is obviously very, very valuable.
By using threat intelligence
and by bringing in feeds from other areas,
from everything from public and private sources,
the dark web, so on and so forth,
we're able to enrich that data
and bring in a lot of additional data
that we can feed or lay on top of the existing alerts
or indicators of compromise that we're seeing.
So it allows us to dig much deeper
and gives us much more information
that we can turn into actionable items
that allow us to take that vulnerability offline
or shut down that incident very quickly.
And then we have ML and AI,
machine learning and artificial intelligence.
So this provides advanced analytics
and machine learning platforms
that can help identify anomalies and deviations
from normal behavior in very, very large data sets.
So it's extremely good at seeing patterns
and seeing things in very large data sets
that a human might miss.
And then we have EDR systems,
endpoint detection and response.
So tools like Carbon Black or CrowdStrike
provide real-time endpoint monitoring
and threat detection capabilities.
So if you put all of these things together,
especially if you're fortunate enough
to have all of these tools in your arsenal,
then threat hunting becomes, I wouldn't say easy,
but it becomes much more of a powerful tool
to really hone in on IOCs and shut things down
many times before they even get a chance to spin up.