Okay, next, let's dig
into digital forensics a bit
and talk about first thing, legal hold.
So what is a legal hold?
It's basically data that has been identified
as material to an investigation.
So it means stuff we have to put aside,
can't touch, can't manipulate.
We have to make sure that it stays exactly the same way
that it was when it was obtained,
because it may very well have to go
to court at some point in time.
So copy or move to an immutable location.
Immutable meaning it cannot be overwritten
or changed in any way.
And then all actions, access to that, etc.
need to be logged.
It's very important when we're maintaining chain of custody
that anything that happens to that specific piece
of evidence be documented and tagged appropriately.
Additionally, it's not subject
to typical data retention policies,
and it may actually be held indefinitely depending upon
how long it takes to go to court or any ramifications
or downstream impacts from that specific court proceeding.
So when I say chain of custody, if you're not familiar
with that term, I mean basically when we collect evidence,
we know exactly what hand it went to
from the time it was collected, who it got turned into,
who that person turned it into, so on and so on.
So anyone that touches it, anyone that changes it
or touches it in any way has to be logged,
and that chain of custody has to be maintained.
So gaps in the chain of custody can destroy a case.
It can literally have it thrown right out the window.
If you can't prove that it's been documented
and you have eyes on that specific piece
of evidence the entire time that it's in your custody,
then it could be argued that it was tampered with
and it can throw that case out.
So evidence can become contaminated
and it introduces what's called reasonable doubt.
You wanna make sure that that evidence
has not been tampered with in any way.
So when it comes to chain of custody,
a custody log should accompany
every single piece of evidence.
So every time the evidence is logged in or out of evidence.
And what I mean by that is when it's logged out
of an evidence locker or an evidence hold,
most police departments or federal agencies
will have an evidence locker or an evidence room,
depending upon obviously the size of the organization.
But there's some place where evidence is stored.
Every time that goes in or out, that needs to be documented
and noted on the chain of custody tag.
And that includes the date, the time, location,
the person checking in or checking out,
and then also any seals or tags on evidence bags,
if they're disrupted in any fashion,
that needs to be documented.
Again, we wanna make sure that we're not gonna throw in
or introduce reasonable doubt into that case.
So just to kinda walk you through the process,
the chain of custody lifecycle.
So the initial investigation, right?
This starts off with initial awareness
of an incident, a crime.
And depending upon what we're talking about here,
that could come from alerts.
If we're talking about from sim systems
or some type of indicator of compromise,
if we're doing like an internal corporate investigation
in some form or fashion, we've become alerted
and now, our focus is on that specific thing.
So at that point, we start documenting
intelligence gathering.
We might do witness statements or interviews.
Everything needs to be documented
from that initial contact forward.
From there, assuming there's enough probable cause
to move forward, we have a search warrant that gets issued.
We go through our preparation,
we construct the search warrant.
You have to go to court, get it signed by a judge.
It has to be very specific for what you're searching for.
The judge issues it, you go and do the warrant execution.
From there again, initial documentation from the time
you arrive on scene, every single thing you do,
photograph the scene.
We'll talk more about that in just a moment,
but make sure you document, document, document.
And then from there, we're securing evidence.
So that goes with collection
and physical handling of evidence.
When we touch a piece of evidence, we need to document that,
put into a collection bag, tag it properly, seal that bag
so we know it has not been tampered with,
and then we'll transport that, right?
So transportation to our evidence,
we log it into our evidence locker or our evidence room.
Again, there's usually an evidence officer
that will sign off with us as well.
And it goes into storage and preservation.
Document logging into and out of evidence
anytime it changes hands or is accessed.
From there, it'll pass over to a forensic analyst.
So the forensic analysis,
basically, they will access the device,
and again, they're accessing it, so they need to document.
They then image that data,
meaning they're gonna put a right blocker on that device
so it can't be tampered with.
They take an image, which is a bit level digital copy
of that evidence.
They may make multiple copies so they can work off the copy,
never off the original device.
That way it's ensured
that that is not tampered with in any way.
After we've done our analysis, we report our findings,
the methods we used in the analysis,
we document the training of the investigator
where they got their expertise from, all that good stuff.
From there, we'll go to a pretrial preparation
and evidence, forensic reports
and so forth are all reviewed by prosecution
and defense attorneys, which is always fun. (chuckles)
And then ultimately, if it gets all the way
to testifying in court, the forensic analyst,
along with the original responding officers
or detectives would also be called to testify as well.
And the forensic analysts themselves may be called
to testify as an expert witness as to what they did,
how they did it, where they got their training from,
all that good stuff.
And again, the chain of custody is presented
to show the integrity of the evidence.
It's very important that we never introduce
any reasonable doubt into that case.
So when it comes to the order of volatility.
Computer evidence is stored in several locations,
some of which is very volatile,
very temporary, i.e RAM, right?
Our random access memory.
Some locations are long-term,
even after deletion, so magnetic hard disk as an example.
We'll talk briefly about deleting versus wiping.
And then some locations are long-term,
but once deleted, they quickly become irretrievable
like on an SSD drive or an NVMe drive.
So I mentioned capturing a system image.
Without going into too much details,
kinda beyond the scope of this course
to dig into too much of the nitty gritty.
But we can introduce a device.
In this instance here, we have a right blocker,
and we'll put that in between the forensics laptop
and the actual target device.
And what that does allows us to take an image
of that remote device with that target device, I should say,
without disturbing the files.
So right block the computer or device in question.
It protects the acquisition target from being tainted
during the acquisition.
From there, recapture a system image.
So we might make multiple copies of the image data,
and then we use the copies
to perform investigation and analysis.
And as I mentioned, we never use
the actual target hard drive.
Again, that would instantly corrupt the investigation.
It would taint the evidence, introduce reasonable doubt,
and it would throw it right out the window.
So we never do that, right?
It's very, very important to right block it.
We take a hash of the target device,
and then all of the actual copies that we have,
we take a hash of that device as well.
As we've talked about previously,
even if one letter changed on that entire disk,
the hash values will be different.
So by hashing before and after, or the target
and the copy that those hash values match,
then we can be assured
that they are the exact copies of each other.
And then forensic software will log
and timestamp every action taken during that investigation.
It builds a case folder to aid in documenting and reporting.
And again, documentation is very important if needed
for later recall, for testimony and so forth.
Okay, so let's take a moment
and talk about the actual preservation of evidence
and capturing that system image.
So here, we have our original or our target devices,
and it could be RAM, it could be an SSD or NVMe,
or magnetic hard disk, a mobile device, so on and so forth.
So once we identify what that target is,
then we take our forensics workstation,
and that could be an actual desktop
or laptop where there are mobile devices,
mobile workstations as well for work out in the field.
And we'll use either hardware
or software, a forensics bridge,
or it could be a physical device that you plug into.
And you basically will take a cable
and plug into that target device.
Again, SSD, hard disk and so forth.
Or it could be an NVMe drive as an example,
which depending upon the type of connector that you have,
it could plug directly into the forensics bridge,
or it may plug into an accessory
that then would have a cable that would run
to that forensics bridge.
So either or, it's all the same process.
So once you connect your device to that bridge,
then you extract data and it will flow.
And again, it's right protected
on the original target device.
So nothing is being written there,
but the data will flow from that device through the bridge
to your forensics workstation.
And the software itself will acquire that image,
either raw format, like a DD copy,
or it may compress that image, depending upon again,
how you choose to acquire the image.
But at the end of the day, you'll have a bit level copy
that's an exact replica of the target device,
and then you can then work off of the copy
and not have to worry about corrupting the target device.
And again, hashes are taken before and after,
so that we can tell we can present in court
or wherever we need to, that the copy
is an exact duplicate of the original.
Now, when it comes to capturing video.
Video can also be an extremely crucial component
to documenting an investigation.
So video can be taken of your actions
during the investigation or analysis,
so it records what's on screen and the position
or location of various components.
And along those same lines, we should understand,
is there video evidence and or security cameras
over and above what we're gonna be taking ourselves?
So if we're inside a data center, as an example,
are there cameras inside?
Is it an office or a remote site
or the entrance or an exit of a building?
So all of these things can help us identify
who may be the perpetrator of a specific crime.
Some other things to keep in mind when we're doing
our investigation is to record the time offset.
So when analyzing data, logs, syslogs, configuration files,
or other evidence, be sure to record the offset.
So the suspect computer may be in a different time zone
than the target, especially if you're doing some type
of remote image acquisition.
So for instance, if it's 9:15 AM on the suspect PC, right?
And we acquire that image,
but it's 12:15 on the target server,
well, that's all well and good
if we have to document maybe tomorrow,
but if it takes six months or a year for that to get
to court, we're never quite sure what the exact time was
because we didn't record it properly.
Add into that you may have five, 10, 15, 100 cases
between now and then by the time it gets to court.
So by recording offsets,
especially if there are multiple devices in play,
it just makes the entire process
much much easier, harder to refute.
And again, we don't wanna introduce reasonable doubt
into that process.
When it comes to recovery of data.
So data can be recovered forensically
if the data hasn't been overwritten,
if it hasn't been wiped,
meaning overwritten multiple passes,
and the NAND has not been reset.
SSD drives, instead of having a magnetic hard disk,
they have chips.
Those chips are basically electrically erased.
The NAND chip is reset when you do a secure erase on an SSD,
it basically electronically wipes everything
on that drive and it's not recoverable.
And then of course, media that's not physically destroyed.
All righty, so that wraps up this module.
A lot of information in this one.
Go back and rewatch if you need to, let it sink in,
or go on to the next and then come back later.
Watching things multiple times helps to internalize,
helps to allow things sink in,
especially as you learn about something
later on in the course.
It may then make something you learned about previously
make more sense and vice versa.
At any rate, stick around
because up next, we'll be talking about using data sources
to support an investigation.
I'll see you in the next module.