So when it comes to evidence gathering,
well, log data serves as a digital trail of activities,
and this really leads us to evidence
that can be crucial in determining the sequence of events
during a security incident.
Basically, it enables the reconstruction of what happened,
who was involved, and how the breach or incident occurred.
When it comes to threat detection,
logs help in the real-time detection of threats
and suspicious activities.
By monitoring log data,
security professionals can identify anomalies,
unusual patterns, and potential security breaches,
and this will enable quick response to mitigate threats
and also secure the environment.
When it comes to forensics and forensic analysis,
both during and after a security incident,
log data plays a vital role in forensic analysis,
so security experts can analyze logs
to understand the extent of a breach, its impact,
and the methods used by attackers.
This information, as you can imagine,
is critical for incident response and recovery efforts,
and is made even more valuable and timely
when data can be correlated across multiple areas,
such as network, storage, compute, firewalls,
applications, and so forth.
When it comes to compliance and auditing,
so many organizations are required
to adhere to compliance standards and regulations.
So that might mean
mandating the collection and retention of log data,
and proper access to those logs is necessary
for compliance audits.
It also is proving adherence to security policies,
and as I mentioned before, penalties and fines
could be imposed for non-compliance,
depending upon the industry, the location, and so forth.
Next is vulnerability assessments and incident response.
So, a vulnerability assessment.
Scans, automated reports, and dashboards
help to identify weaknesses and also vulnerabilities.
And this information empowers data-driven decisions
from taking proactive measures,
to planning and budgeting,
which is required to properly secure the environment.
As far as incident response is concerned,
in the event of a security incident,
having access to log data from various sources
is crucial for effective incident response.
It allows security teams
to identify the scope of the incident,
contain it,
and then remediate affected systems.
And it also provides the details needed
for after-incident reviews, or AIRs,
communications to management,
to partners, and also to customers.
When it comes to user accountability,
logs can hold both users, and also administrators,
accountable for their actions.
So they provide a record
of who access what resources, and when,
which, of course, helps to prevent insider threats
and unauthorized access.
So a lot of that really centers around
the proper use of user accounts.
So no shared accounts or very limited use were possible.
Things like PAM, privileged access management,
and other tools can help assist in that area.
Some additional benefits.
We have pattern analysis.
So this can reveal behavior that might have been missed,
identify trends and emerging threats.
So threat intelligence, again, can further assist here.
It enriches the data from various additional sources.
Proactivity is the name of the game here,
trying to keep one step ahead of your adversaries.
And then we have continuous monitoring.
Continuous monitoring of log data, again,
is a proactive approach to security.
So it's a bit of a superpower, if you think about it,
in that it enables organizations to detect and respond
to security threats in real time,
reducing the potential impact of breaches.
And in reality, shrinking the time horizon
between initial breach to detection
can have a massively positive impact in reducing the damage.
And then we have historical context,
which logs can provide that context,
allowing security teams
to track changes and events over time.
So, that historical data is valuable for trend analysis,
understanding the evolution of threats,
and also making informed security decisions.
As examples,
forecasting and budgeting are constant challenges,
and having good data to support these things
allows you to bring on new tools, new applications,
and, ultimately, new capabilities.
Let's find some of the data sources we're talking about.
So we have vulnerability scans.
And again, identifying weaknesses in the network or systems
and really helps proactively address security flaws
before they can be exploited by attackers.
Next we have automated reports,
and these provide a concise overview
of security events and vulnerabilities.
And these can be on-demand,
they can be emailed in the morning,
first thing in the morning,
once a week, once a month,
whatever is appropriate for your organization.
But they enable quick decision-making
by presenting relevant information
in an easily digestible format.
And then we have dashboards, which everyone likes.
Real-time visibility
into the security posture of your environment.
It can consolidate data from multiple sources,
and also allows for continuous monitoring
and quick response.
And then we have packet captures,
which entails the capture and storing
of network traffic data,
which is invaluable for deep packet analysis,
which enables the reconstruction of network events,
and also understanding the flow of data during an incident.