So when it comes to risk,
there are a number of types of risks
that we should be aware of.
First off, we have external risks.
So these are basically threats
that originate from external sources outside the company,
such as cyber attacks, could be malware,
could be phishing attacks,
basically all things
that can impact an organization's cybersecurity.
And then we have internal risks.
So these are risks that stem from within an organization,
often caused by employees or insiders,
and can also include accidental data leaks
or insider threats.
And we have legacy systems,
and we have a couple really old systems
sitting here in this picture.
But these are basically risks associated
with outdated or unsupported technology and software,
which may have unpatched vulnerabilities as an example.
Then we have multi-party risk,
and these are vulnerabilities arising from dependencies
on third-party vendors, suppliers, or partners
where their security issues can impact the organization.
Then we have IP theft risk.
So this is the potential loss
of valuable intellectual properties,
such as patents and proprietary data,
through cyber espionage or insider threats.
And then we have software compliance and licensing.
This has risks related to non-compliance
with software licensing requirements
or the use of unlicensed or pirated software.
And as you might guess, this can lead to legal
and/or financial penalties.
So when we actually do a risk assessment,
we have a few things we can look at.
So we have ad hoc, and these are conducted on an irregular
or an as needed basis, often in response to specific events,
concerns, or requests.
They lack structure and they lack a predefined schedule.
These are usually useful for addressing immediate
or unexpected risks,
such as responding to a security incident
or evaluating a new project
or investigating a specific threat.
And next we have recurring,
which are conducted at regular intervals
following a predefined schedule.
So here assessments are repeated periodically,
whether that's monthly, quarterly, or annually,
or according to some set timeline.
So these provide a consistent
and ongoing evaluation of risks,
which makes them suitable for monitoring changes
in a threat landscape,
perhaps tracking compliance over time
with security policies,
or identifying trends.
Then we have one-time risk assessments.
So these, as you might guess,
are conducted on a single occasion,
often to address a specific situation or a project.
Once completed,
they do not have a regular follow-up
or a recurring schedule.
So these type of assessments are appropriate for unique
or perhaps isolated scenarios
such as assessing the risk associated with a one-time event,
a specific system implementation,
or perhaps a merger or acquisition.
And then we have continuous,
ongoing and dynamic processes
that involve real-time monitoring of risks,
threats, and vulnerabilities.
So here we continuously collect and analyze data to identify
and respond to changing risks.
So these are valuable for organizations
with evolving cybersecurity needs
as they provide up-to-the-minute insights
into emerging threats, vulnerabilities,
and, of course, risk trends.
So they're often used in conjunction with automated tools
and threat intelligence feeds.