So when we talk about risk calculation,
this is basically the process of identifying
the likelihood of a threat, the impact from the threat,
and how quickly systems can be operational.
So we're looking at things like likelihood,
the ALE or the annual loss expectancy value, overall impact,
a single loss expectancy, and then the ARO
or the annualized rate of occurrence.
So let's break some of these things down.
So the likelihood of threat,
basically the possibility of threat initiation.
So this can be rank either qualitatively or quantitatively,
as we've talked about before.
Just because of vulnerability exists
doesn't necessarily mean it can be exploited.
So understanding the risk enables proper prioritization.
So everything can't be the highest
or the lowest priority, right?
Everything can't be number one.
We have to stack rank that in order of priority
and then triage the most important things first,
and then we have the impact of the threat.
So if the threat is successfully initiated,
what is the actual impact?
So is a system slow or unresponsive or completely offline?
Those are obviously two very different things
and would require a different level of response.
How about things like data loss
or destruction of systems or data,
customer confidence, downstream effects,
what other systems did that specific system feed
or get data from, dependencies and so forth.
Some of these things are more difficult
to quantify than others,
but in doing so, it allows us, again, to triage
and stack rank appropriately so we're identifying
and prioritizing our resources effectively.
So I mentioned a few loss calculation terms.
So we have the annual loss expectancy or the ALE,
and that is a monetary measure
of how much loss you can expect in a single year.
A single loss expectancy is the monetary measure
of how much you can expect to lose at any one time
from a single event.
And that's calculated by the asset value
times the EF or exposure factor.
So annualized rate of occurrence.
So the likelihood, which is usually determined
with historical value of an event occurring within a year.
So if you put all of that together,
we get the SLE times the ARO equals the ALE.
So our single loss expectancy
times the annualized rate of occurrence
gives us our annual loss expectancy.
So let's take a look at an example.
So here we have an e-commerce company
that generates $100,000 in sales
per hour from their website.
So they're doing okay, right?
The probability of the server failing
during the year is 30%.
So failure would generate four hours of downtime
and $6,000 in components to repair.
So the single loss expectancy is $406,000
or $100,000 per hour times four hours,
plus the 6,000 in repair parts, right?
So $406,000.
The annual rate of occurrence
is determined to be 0.5 or 50%.
So there's a 50% chance that that could actually occur.
So therefore, our annual loss expectancy is $203,000
or the 406 times 0.50.
So at that point, we now have a quantitative analysis
of that specific asset,
and we can prioritize resources, funding,
and so forth appropriately
to make sure that that specific asset is protected,
or at the very least, we've prioritized that within the list
of other things that may need to be addressed.