Okay, a few more topics to cover.
So let's talk about business impact analysis
and BIA key terminology.
So we have recovery time objective, or RTO,
and RTO is the maximum acceptable downtime
an organization can tolerate
for a specific system or service
after a cybersecurity incident or a failure occurs.
Recovery point objective, or RPO,
defines the maximum acceptable data loss
an organization can tolerate
after a cybersecurity incident or failure.
So RTO, how much time can elapse,
RPO, how much data can be lost?
And then we have MTTR or mean time to repair,
and this is the average time it takes
to repair or restore a failed system or service
to normal operation after an incident.
And then lastly, mean time between failures, or MTBF,
so average time between system
or component failures in a given environment.
So there's some of the key things to understand here.
The shorter the RPO and the shorter the RTO,
the more expensive it will typically be.
So if we can tolerate, say, 12 hours of downtime
and 24 hours of data loss,
well, it's gonna be relatively inexpensive
to maintain that data protection environment.
If we need relatively realtime and five minutes max,
well, then we're gonna
have to have basically real-time snapshotting
or data synchronization,
you know, some method in place
to make sure we have near real-time recoverability.
That's gonna be extremely expensive.
So most companies will fall somewhere in the middle.
But, again, it's all relative.
So if your company's making $1 million a minute,
well then yes, you're gonna spend a lot of money
to make sure that data's recoverable
almost up to the minute.
If it makes $10 a day, well then not so much,
so it will fall somewhere in the middle.
And mean time between failures is basically a calculation
estimating when that specific component will fail.
So it's always a good idea to perform periodic maintenance
or replace that component before the MTBF is realized
right before that equipment fails.
Do those replacements
or that maintenance during planned downtime,
which makes people happy, (laughs)
as opposed to unplanned downtime, not so happy.
So if things go down unexpectedly,
there's no maintenance window,
it can be a very bad day,
especially if lots of systems are impacted.
However, if you do those things within a maintenance window,
everyone is expecting it,
they understand things will be down for a period of time,
then people can make arrangements
to maybe fall over to a secondary system or a backup system.
One is active, one is on standby.
We can flip the switch and move things over to our standby,
make that active for a period of time.
When the maintenance window is over, flip it back.
If things happen without any prior knowledge,
again, (laughs) it's a bad day.
All righty, that brings us to the end of that module.
A lot of really good information
around risk and risk management.
So I suggest you pay attention there,
and go through that a few times
to make sure you understand the concepts.
And then think to yourself, how can you apply these concepts
within your own environment if they're not already there,
or if they are and you never really thought about it,
it's a good idea to take these things
and understand where they actually
already fall into your environment.
It's a good way to connect the dots
and have things stick in your head.
So hopefully you found that informative and learned a lot.
But stick around though, because next up
we have third-party risk assessment and management.
I'll see you in the next module.