So there are several types of agreements
that I wanna make sure you're aware of.
First off is an SLA or service level agreement.
So this is a legal document that needs to be put in place
before you engage with services
or interact with third parties.
So this will define and identify things like uptime,
reliability, and response times,
and then also penalties for non-performance.
So this is important, very important
because if you don't have these things clearly defined,
then the vendor is under no specific obligation
to do things in a specified period of time.
It could take them days, weeks, months, or not at all.
If there's no penalties for that non-performance,
again, that makes it very difficult for you to take action.
The more due diligence you do upfront
and the more contractual things you have upfront
makes the entire process that much more smooth.
Next is a memorandum of understanding or an MOU.
So this is really a letter of intent.
It's really not a formalized contract.
And what it does is specify mutually accepted expectations
between two or more people.
Typically, it's not legally binding
and it's more flexible than contracts.
However, legal remedies, liquidated damages
and so forth may not be available.
So regardless of how cautious you may be, MOUs pose risks.
So in a business environment,
these informal agreements lack the formality
and the standardization of a contract
and basically don't have the same protections
that both parties would expect during a project.
So as a result, legal remedies might be non-existent
in the event of a non-performance
or a lack of adherence to an MOU.
So typically recommended not to use these things.
I'm just putting it out there for your information.
There are more formalized ways to get the job done.
Next is a master services agreement.
So this is a contract reached
between two parties in which the parties agree
to most of the terms that will govern
future transactions or future agreements.
So expedite future transactions
is really the one of the main goals.
Most of the terms will be negotiated ahead of time,
pricing, discounts, SLAs,
turnaround times, et cetera, et cetera.
So only terms specific to the transaction at hand
then need to be negotiated because some of these contracts,
especially for bigger companies,
can take weeks or months to flush out.
You get the contract, your legal team red lines it,
sends it back, their legal team takes it, red lines it,
sends it back, and it'll go back multiple iterations
before both parties finally agree.
And if you have to do that every single time,
it becomes very burdensome to both sides.
So by having an MSA in place,
you can negotiate a large portion of that,
maybe 80, 90% ahead of time,
and it will be standard for each contract.
Then you can just refer to the MSA
during those pieces of the contract.
Only the things that are specific to that actual transaction
will then need to be called out.
Next is a BPA or a business partner agreement.
And this defines roles on each side
of a manufacturer/reseller relationship.
Decision making process, management style,
how capital is to be distributed,
salary, distributions, and so forth.