So next up, let's talk about privacy.
So we have a big challenge here.
The global nature of the internet can cause communication
and expectations of privacy
to vary widely throughout different parts of the world.
So what do I mean by that?
Well, behavior that's totally acceptable
in one part of the world
can be a capital offense in another.
So, (chuckles) so I don't mean to laugh,
but that really can't be overstated.
What can be acceptable in one place
can be really bad in another.
So we have to be aware of these things, cultural norms
and so forth, being respectful of the place
in which we do business.
So again, doing business in a global economy.
Historically, the US traditionally set the tone
for data privacy laws.
However, other countries have stepped out
and really taken the lead here,
so more restrictive regulations
aimed at consumer privacy and also protection
and companies must comply with the laws
of each country in which they do business.
And we'll talk a bit about GDPR here, but that's a big one.
If you do business within the UK,
then you must comply with those laws.
So some of the privacy compliance challenges.
So we have data security.
So requirements are obviously coming from all angles,
data privacy laws, cybersecurity regulations,
trade secret laws, so on and so forth, right,
customer specific contracts, consumer protection statutes.
As you can see, there's a myriad of things,
all of which can vary depending upon location
and also jurisdiction.
And then, deletion of data.
Understanding what data a company even has,
it can be massive amounts of data.
Keeping track of all these things is a massive challenge.
So where that data resides,
how long to retain the data, so on and so forth,
all of these things are a major challenge.
And then once you factor in things like big data
and big data analytics, that makes keeping
and mining that data potentially more valuable.
So companies don't necessarily really have an incentive
to get rid of data if they can mine it
and somehow make money off of it.
So sometimes making money, profits, are in direct opposition
to the rules and regulations around them.
And then documentation, keeping up with requirements,
especially with global companies,
is becoming increasingly complex.
Requirements vary between countries
and sometimes even between states,
whether it's local, federal, et cetera.