Alrighty, so some GDPR key terminology.
When we're talking about personal data,
some things to keep in mind.
So here's good old Sally
and all the things that apply to her.
It can be a name, an ID number, a date of birth,
it could be her email address, any online identifiers,
photographs, religious beliefs, or location data.
So again, a few of these are kind of obvious,
but some things in and of themselves don't necessarily
stand out as being identifiable.
But again, with big data analytics, if we start pulling all
of these things together, a name, an ID number,
or an email address, they can all start to paint
a big picture of who Sally is.
So we could potentially be keeping these pieces of data
in disparate databases,
or, shudder the thought, a spreadsheet
or a SharePoint site where it's easily accessible
in plain text, which we would never do,
so hopefully you're not doing that.
But any of these types of things, again,
can be pulled in from all these different places,
put together, and then paint a very accurate picture
of who Sally is.
So that type of data needs to be regulated, life cycled,
and secured properly.
Some additional key terminology,
we have the term processing.
So any operation, whether automated or manual,
that is performed on personal data.
A data processor is responsible for the processing
of personal data on behalf of a data controller.
And the data controller themselves determines the purpose
and the means by which personal data is processed.
So six data processing principles.
We need to have lawfulness, fairness, and transparency.
Again, it needs to be lawfully collected.
We have to have purpose limitation.
It needs to be specified and explicit.
We have to define why we're collecting that information
so that way we're not gathering information
that's out of scope or unnecessary.
And then data minimization, again, we wanna only collect
what is necessary, nothing more.
The data must be accurate,
and where possible, kept up to date, which again,
you can imagine is a big challenge.
And then storage limitation,
so kept only as long as necessary.
So if we need someone's information for six months
for a marketing campaign or a customer service
or what have you, well, then after that six-month period
that needs to be deleted.
And then integrity, and confidentiality.
We have to make sure that that data is kept secure.
So, as you can see, any one of these things
is a major challenge.
When you start looking at all six,
it's a pretty massive undertaking.