Okay, additionally, let's talk
about the Legal Grounds for Processing of Personal Data.
So consent, consent should be freely given,
specific, informed, and unambiguous.
So it must be a clear affirmative action
by the data subject, right, the person,
and those individuals should have the right
to withdraw that consent at any time.
Now, the key element here is organizations must be able
to demonstrate that they have obtained valid consent
for that data processing.
Or it could be vital interest,
so processing personal data is allowed
if it's necessary to protect someone's life.
So this basis is generally limited to situations
where there's a risk to an individual's life,
and no other lawful basis can be applied.
It could also be a contractual necessity.
So processing personal data is lawful
if it's necessary for the performance of a contract
to which a data subject is a party
or a pre-contractual measure
taken at the data subject's request.
Again, this basis is typically used in business transactions
where data processing is required to fulfill a contract.
We have the concept of legitimate interest,
so organizations can process personal data
based upon their legitimate interests,
providing that these interests are not overridden
by an individual's rights and interests, right,
so we're talking about the data subject or the person,
their rights typically will trump the organization's rights.
So organizations must conduct
a legitimate interest assessment, or an LIA,
to balance their interests
against the data subject rights' interests.
And then we have public authority, or legal obligation.
They're related, so I'll group them together here,
but basically, processing may be necessary
for compliance with a legal obligation
to which the data controller is subject
or for the performance of a task
carried out in public interest.
Processing may be necessary
for a compliance with a legal obligation
to which the data controller is subject
or for the performance of a task carried out
in the public interest, or again,
in the exercise of an official authority.
Alright, so that's a bit of legalese,
but it basically means for public authority,
like the police or a city council,
they can use your personal information
if they need to do it for their official duties.
For example, the police might need your information
to investigate a crime.
When it comes to legal obligation,
that means sometimes the law requires organizations
to use your personal information.
For instance, tax authorities, again,
everyone's favorite organization,
may need your financial information to make sure
that you pay the right amount of taxes.
So in these specific circumstances,
even though we may not necessarily agree or consent,
their interest would override the person.