Okay, next, let's talk
about cloud vulnerabilities.
And when we say cloud providers, obviously like Amazon, AWS,
Azure, Google, the big hyperscalers come to mind,
but there are also smaller cloud providers
out there as well.
So I'm kind of using the generic term.
So a cloud provider
is a large multi-tenant set of infrastructure.
So they have multiple tenants
or multiple customers sitting on that infrastructure.
As you can imagine, they become large targets
for typically more skilled hackers,
but there's a lot of data,
a lot of potentially valuable information there
so they become large targets.
And to that point, other larger
or more desirable companies may actually be the target
on that infrastructure.
But if you're sitting on that same infrastructure,
a multi-tenant environment, you may be sitting there along
with three or four other companies
that are much more valuable,
or they might be in a different industry,
or they might have some things
that become a high-value target.
Well, if they're targeted, and we're using things
like VM escape we talked about before
where an attacker can come in
and compromise that specific company,
but now they also have access to your assets
because you're sitting on the same infrastructure, well,
you become collateral damage in that scenario.
So what we need to understand
is that cloud doesn't automatically mean secure.
So the same security processes need to be followed,
whether on-prem or in the cloud, web application firewalls,
provisioning/deprovisioning of users, security policies,
all the things that we would do in-house,
we need to make sure those things are being carried out
in the cloud as well.
So a few examples of cloud-specific vulnerabilities.
So inadequate identity and access management, or IAM.
So this includes weak password policies,
overly permissive roles, or neglected user deprovisioning.
Users leave the company,
but we don't deprovision their account.
They still have access days, weeks, months later.
Well, that just gives opportunity for people to come in
and do damage to our networks.
Also, insecure APIs or application programming interfaces.
Insecure APIs can be exploited by attackers,
gain unauthorized access and manipulate cloud resources.
Again, same thing if it was on-prem.
An API in the cloud is not inherently more secure
just because it's in the cloud.
And then shared technology,
which we talked about a few moments ago.
So vulnerabilities in the underlying technology,
such as hypervisors or hardware,
can potentially expose customer data
and allow people to jump VMs,
cross guests on the host, right?
We can do microsegmentation, we can do network segmentation
to help mitigate some of those things.
But understand in a shared technology
or a multi-tenant environment,
those things are real potential risks.
And then shadow IT we talked about briefly.
Employees or departments may use cloud services
without the IT department's knowledge or approval,
increasing the risk of unsecured data and applications.
Again, they pull out a credit card,
they spin up a bunch of VMs,
it's not being monitored,
it's not following a proper procedure
because maybe they don't understand exactly
how things are built.
They just wanna get something up and running.
So again, if the IT department,
if the security department doesn't know about it,
they can't monitor, they can't audit,
and then chances are good it's not being patched or updated.
So as you can imagine,
security vulnerabilities start to mount.
And then also lack of encryption.
So data should be encrypted, both in transit and at rest.
Again, same thing we would do in-house or on-prem
we need to make sure we do in the cloud.
It's even more important in the cloud
because we're putting data in
and pulling data out of the cloud constantly back and forth.
So if it's not encrypted properly,
that's just leaving things wide open to be intercepted
by bad actors.