Next, the right to be forgotten.
So the right to be forgotten allows individuals
to request the removal of their personal data.
So as you can imagine, organizations face challenges
ensuring comprehensive data erasure,
basically balancing competing rights
and navigating complex technical and legal considerations.
So when it comes to the right to be forgotten,
a few more things I wanna talk about.
So just so you're aware, this originated
from the European Union's GDPR legislation, adopted in 2016,
so again, it's been around for a while.
And it's a data subject's right,
meaning it's granted to individuals
whose personal data is being processed by an organization.
Conditions for exercise, meaning it's no longer necessary
or the consent's withdrawn.
So data subjects, or again, people,
can typically exercise this right under certain conditions,
such as when the data's no longer necessary
for the purpose in which it was collected or processed,
when consent is withdrawn,
or even in certain circumstances
when the data processing is based on legitimate interests
but the individual objects to it.
When it comes to data removal,
when a request is made, the organization must comply
and completely erase that individual's data
and also inform any third parties
to whom it has disclosed that data.
So as you can imagine, that's a pretty monumental challenge.
And as I mentioned, that can all take place,
they could potentially collect that data again.
So if you were to request that it be removed,
don't necessarily assume that's for life.
That's a periodic thing that, if it's important to you,
you should check in on every so often.
Okay, that brings us to the end of this module.
A lot of really good information.
Hopefully it really illustrates to you
the importance of security compliance.
It's not a trivial matter, and some of the fines
and penalties can be extremely impactful.
So again, hopefully you found it informative,
but stick around, because up next we have types and purposes
of audits and assessments.
I'll see you in the next module.