Hey, everybody.
Welcome back to Pluralsight.
I'm your instructor, Christopher Reese.
And in this module, we'll be talking about
types and purposes of audits and assessments.
Let's go ahead and take a look at what we'll cover.
We'll be talking about attestation,
internal audits and assessments,
external audits and assessments,
and then penetration testing.
So, a lot of great information in this module.
Make sure you don't skip through,
especially the information on penetration testing.
So as usual, let's take a look behind the curtain
and see what our subtopics are.
I'll go ahead and pause here for a second,
and then when you're ready, let's go ahead and get started.
All right, so as we always do, why is this important?
Well, I'm glad you asked.
Audits and assessments are a necessary
and also a very critical component
to maintaining a strong security posture.
So, it helps ensure security measures are in place,
up to date, and also meeting compliance requirements,
and we know from our last module
how important compliance is.
So, it also helps to uncover deficiencies
and gaps in current processes.
So, some of the benefits of proper audits
and assessments are compliance assurance.
We wanna make sure we demonstrate compliance with legal,
regulatory, and also industry specific requirements.
Otherwise, we face the risk of penalties and legal issues.
Then risk mitigation.
So, by doing proper audits and assessments,
we identify vulnerabilities and risks
and also enable organizations to take a proactive measure
to mitigate potential threats
and also minimize the impact of security incidents.
So, audits and assessment lead to improved product
and overall service quality,
enhancing customer satisfaction,
and ultimately customer loyalty.
Also, efficiency gains.
So, identifying and addressing inefficiencies
or bottlenecks can result in cost savings
and increased operational efficiency.
Another big one is data-driven decisions.
So, audits and assessments provide data insights necessary
to make informed decision making
and also strategic planning.
It also provides enhanced security
in that they help fortify an organization's defenses
where the nicks in the armor are, so to speak,
which helps protect sensitive data
and prevent security breaches.
Audits and assessments also promote transparency
and accountability in operations,
and also financial reporting,
enhancing trust among stakeholders and also shareholders.
And then lastly, something we're always striving for
is continuous improvement.
So, regular audits and assessments create that culture
of continuous improvement, driving organizational growth
and also competitiveness.