So first off, let's talk about phishing.
And as we know, phishing campaigns are a cyber attack
technique that involves deceiving individuals
and revealing sensitive information
such as login credentials, personal data,
or financial information.
So as an example, here we have a hacker.
They're going to launch a phishing campaign
and they'll use a variety of tools.
It could be email, it could be SMS, social engineering,
or even phones.
As we've learned previously, hackers can use voicemail,
voice phishing, vishing,
just as effectively as any other method.
But regardless of which method they choose,
they all lend themselves and rely on some type
of social engineering tactic.
So in other words, tricking the user into complying
and downloading a malicious payload.
And the hackers themselves may use different types of tools,
like I said, attachments, worms, malicious emails.
It could be forms, various types of phishing attacks,
all of those things center around some type
of social engineering attack.
And we've talked about the different levels
of phishing campaigns.
We have generic phishing,
which is basically a spray and pray, right?
It's a big numbers game,
whereas you have more targeted phishing campaigns
like spear phishing and then also whaling,
where you're going after the big fish, basically.
So recognizing a phishing attempt,
there are some telltale signs that we can look out for,
and it's really imperative that we train users
to recognize these things.
So the sender's email address,
if it's from somewhere we don't recognize,
then that in and of itself should at least raise a red flag.
It may not necessarily be malicious,
but we should be looking at it more closely.
And then generic greetings.
If it's just an email and says, "Hey, user,"
or "Hey, ma'am, or sir," right?
And it doesn't have your name or anything about you
in there, the more generic, the better the chance it is
some type of phishing campaign.
Also, if there's some type of urgency or a threat
within the email saying you have to act immediately,
or if you don't respond, you'll face some type of penalty
or something along the lines
you have to provide your username and password immediately,
things along those lines are, again,
generally telltale signs of a phishing campaign.
Also, misspellings and grammar.
Not to say that someone can't misspell something,
but typically in a professional environment,
that's gonna be minimal.
It's also important that we examine the URL links
to make sure that they're not hiding something under the URL
text or the anchor text itself,
and we'll talk more about that in just a moment.
Also, unsolicited attachments.
So if someone's sending us something,
a PDF or something that we didn't ask for,
it's a very good idea not to click on that
because as we know, those unsolicited attachments
can contain malicious payloads, ransomware,
malware, so on and so forth.
Also, any request for personal info.
In a professional setting, your IT department
will never ask you for your username or password,
social security number, all that good stuff.
That's not gonna happen.
So if a user does get these types of emails,
it's important they understand
not to provide that information.
And then also mismatched logos or branding, again,
a telltale sign, especially if the attacker
or the bad actor has no real knowledge of the company,
they may not understand that the logo is squished
or it's not the right dimensions or not the right colors.
So if any one of these things show up in an email
or a link that you get, it should raise some red flags.
If you have three or four of these things,
it's pretty much a dead giveaway
that these things are not legitimate.
So users need to understand not to click on these things.
So looking at it in more detail, checking URL links,
grammar, and also logos.
So say for instance, we have a link here, right?
Pluralsight.com/feedback-form.php.
It looks like a legitimate link,
but if we hover over this, we see it actually points
to a fraudulent URL.
Notice the domain name is not the same.
So if a user wasn't paying attention,
they may not notice that.
Now this is a bit more obvious,
but a more skilled hacker might be off
by just one letter or so.
Also, that email, as I mentioned,
might have a generic reading, right?
Not your first name or last name.
Nothing that personalizes that to you,
or the text of the message may have some misspellings
or grammar issues, or the logo itself.
In this instance, the logo is squished
and not the proper dimensions.
Again, all of these things are telltale signs.
And just so you're aware
of the different elements of a link.
So here we have, for instance, on Pluralsight's webpage,
you can see we have security architecture
for CompTIA Security+.
That's the actual link.
So if you hover over that link, you then get the anchor text
that is what is displayed to the user.
But down in the bottom of your webpage
is the actual target URL.
So as you hover over that URL, you'll see down at the bottom
where it's actually pointing to.
So as I mentioned, a skilled attacker
may be off by one letter.
They may add an additional letter or make it very slight
so that if you're not paying attention, you won't notice
that it's not the actual URL
or the place you think you're going to.