Hey everybody, welcome back to Pluralsight.
I'm your instructor, Christopher Rees,
and this is the domain summary
for security program management and oversight.
So our good friend, Alice, and myself both giving you a
thumbs up because this domain summary brings us to the end
of CompTIA Security+ SY0-701
security program management and oversight
for CompTIA Security+ is the fifth course
of the five domains covered by the exam.
So congrats, you've made it to the end of the course.
So we've gone through general security concepts, threats,
vulnerabilities and mitigations, security architecture,
security operations,
and now we just finished up security program
management and oversight.
So some key concepts to remember,
we talked about the different types of policies,
such things as our acceptable use policy,
business continuity, disaster recovery,
incident response policies,
software development lifecycle, or SDLC.
We talked about the different types
of risk analysis like qualitative and quantitative.
Also, some key terms that you must be familiar with.
SLE, single loss event, ALE, annual loss expectancy,
ARO, the annual rate of occurrence, and EF exposure factor.
So make sure you're familiar with all of these.
Also, business impact analysis
and the various terms including
RTO, RPO, MTTR, and MTBF.
So if you don't know what those mean
or that doesn't ring a bell, you might wanna go back
and review the material.
We also talked about the various risk assessment types
and agreement types, things like SLAs, MSAs, SOWs,
and of course NDAs.
And then we dug into penetration testing
and the different types of teams, red teams,
blue teams, purple teams, right?
Offensive, defensive, and a collaborative team
that takes the best of both worlds, if you will,
and the different types of environments.
Unknown environment and unknown or partially known.
And then we dug into phishing a bit with phishing campaigns
and associated user training.
So identifying phishing campaigns
and then creating a security culture overall.
So a lot of really good stuff in this domain.
Just make sure you go through the terms
and you're familiar with the different concepts.
So when it comes to exam success, things we've talked about
before, review the material more than once.
So again, allow time for the information to sink in
and revisit several times if you need to.
Use test questions and exam sims
to test your knowledge and retention.
But again, sometimes it's great to watch the material,
get up, move around, take a break,
do something else completely that gets your mind off of it,
allow it to sink in, and then oftentimes when you come back
to it, it makes much more sense.
Also, I can't stress enough the importance of labs and demos
and also supplemental courses so
that additional information will help solidify the content
and of course, add additional context.
The labs here at Pluralsight are outstanding,
so I definitely recommend you dive into those.
And then also some recommended additional content,
always a bit of a plug for myself, security, architecture
and design, the big picture.
Also malware analysis, the big picture.
And of course, introduction to threat intelligence.
There are some courses that can give you some additional
information and additional context,
so I recommend you check those out as well.
And then also a glossary of key terms.
And I won't sit here and read through this,
but I'll include them in the slide deck.
A couple pages of key terminology
that you should be familiar with.
So again, when you get a chance, review these,
make sure they all make sense.
And then as I mentioned, make sure you
utilize the Pluralsight Labs.
They're extremely well done.
They give you hands-on time with the various technologies
and tools, and again, can give additional context
to the things we've talked about here.
There are over 50 labs just in the security realm.
So again, dig in, take advantage.
And then last but not least, we've been racing along
and you have made it to the finish line.
This is the last of the five domains.
So congratulations on a job well done.
Hopefully you found the information informative,
you learned a lot, and hopefully had
a bit of fun along the way.
But stick around because that's not all up.
Next, we have exam tips and tricks for CompTIA Security+.
So I'll see you over in the next course.