So when we're talking
about the different types of actors,
fun fact, not every (laughs) hacking group
wears a Guy Fawkes mask,
and they don't typically wear hoodies,
although I'm sure they could sometimes,
but I don't know why every hacker picture
or image you always kind drip in your head,
they always kinda look like this.
But just an FYI, they typically don't.
So you won't necessarily be able to tell
just by looking at someone.
But anyway, I digress.
So threat actors can range from beginners
just probing around to highly organized nation states
where it's very well-funded,
very well-organized, and so forth.
All right, so that could be, again, nation-state.
It could be an unskilled attacker,
otherwise known as script kiddies.
It could be hacktivists, insider threats,
organized crime, and so forth, right, shadow IT.
So let's dig into each of these in a little more detail.
So for nation-states or APTs, advanced persistent threats,
so these are highly skilled attackers, and their main goal
is to penetrate government or commercial systems.
So it could be cyber espionage,
it could be data or intellectual property theft,
it could also be sabotage, or it could be cyber warfare.
So these folks are very stealthy, very persistent.
Their goal is to get into the network very stealthily
without detection, sit there for a long period of time
or as long as necessary, gather information,
exfiltrate data, look at what's going on,
kind of find out where the crown jewels
are located within that environment,
and stay there for as long as possible.
They wanna see what's going on, they wanna capture emails,
they wanna capture data,
specific pieces of intellectual property, and so forth.
And quite often they may get in
and get out without being detected.
The average breach from a very well-funded,
a very sophisticated group
might go on for six months to a year to a year and a half.
So these will typically be the most dangerous
to an organization.
Next, we have unskilled hackers,
otherwise known as script kiddies,
and (laughs) no offense to "Star Wars" fans, I'm one myself,
but just seem like the icon kind of fit.
But hackers that are relatively new or unskilled.
So it doesn't necessarily have to refer to a script kiddy,
which is hence why they changed the name.
It's just an unskilled hacking group.
Someone that's relatively new to the game,
they may be using tools that they pull off the dark web
or something that's just kind of ready made
or push button easy.
So not necessarily a very skilled hacking group.
Not to say, however, they can't evolve
into a very skilled hacker
or align themselves with some other organization.
They're typically looking to see what they can get into,
just like, you know, a mountain climber might say,
"Well, why'd you climb that mountain?"
Well, because it was there, right?
They just wanna see what they can get into.
They're not necessarily looking to do damage.
They just wanna see if they can figure out
how to get into a specific system.
So the challenge itself is really the attraction.
Not typically associated with any organized hacking groups.
Again, trying not to put any blanket statements here.
Every group is different, every person is different,
some may be very well-funded, but generally speaking,
they're not as skilled, not as well-funded,
not affiliated with a specific agenda or some larger group.
Next we have hacktivists.
Now, hacktivists are hackers who are usually motivated
by ideology or some social political cause.
It could be deforestation, it could be climate change,
or it could be some other type of political motivation.
So these groups can be well-funded and highly skilled.
They usually deface websites
and things like that trying to get their message across.
And it's also possible that they steal information,
such as personal information and credentials.
They can also do what's referred to as a DDoS
or distributed denial of service attack,
trying to take information or services offline
for a period of time,
and not necessarily particularly patient or stealthy.
So they actually wanna cause disruption
or they wanna be acknowledged for what they've done.
So they'll put their hacking group up or whatever,
again, trying to further their message or their agenda.
Next, we have insiders or insider threats,
and then often motivated by financial gain.
Now, CERT advises that over 70%
of intellectual property theft cases involve insiders.
And why is that?
Well, because the insiders, they basically know
where the bodies are buried, right?
They know where the crown jewels are,
they know what data is important,
they know where things are located,
and they often have access to these things.
So if they're properly motivated, they might be by revenge,
they might be disgruntled, or they may have gotten an offer
from some other group that says,
"Hey, we're gonna give you X amount of money," or whatever.
It could be blackmailed.
They could be blackmailed by some other group.
But once they're inside, they have access to things
that an outsider would not have access to.
So they are, again, one of the biggest risks
when talking about how data is gathered,
exfiltrated from an organization.
Sometimes data is actually leaked or made insecure
by accidental exposure can occur from misuse
or misconfigured systems.
So again, an insider threat
doesn't necessarily have to be motivated
by some external force
or some desire to get back at the corporation
or their boss or what have you.
It could just be an accidental misconfiguration of a system.
And as I mentioned, data theft
includes intellectual property and company secrets.
Next, we have organized crime.
And as the name implies,
organized crime is a very organized group.
So hackers who are motivated typically by financial gain,
and they're very deliberate
with very high technical capability,
very-well funded typically.
They're patient and persistent.
And they target such things as point of sale terminals,
ATM machines, credit card numbers, and so forth.
They steal personal information for sale on the dark web
and things along those lines.
So again, gathering information wherever they can,
things that might be of value to others.
They'll put it up on the dark web
or they'll put it into some type of network
where you can sell that information over and over again
and use that to help fund their other enterprises.
Okay, next we have shadow IT.
And shadow IT is really a group of IT folks
that form outside of the formal IT organization.
So they often have their own agenda, their own funding.
They develop projects outside of company standards,
more often than not.
And where the risk really comes in
is they can create security vulnerabilities
and blind spots in the enterprise.
Groups or pockets of shadow IT
can be located throughout an enterprise.
So if a business or a group thinks
that maybe the formal IT organization's
not moving fast enough,
or they say no when they wanna spin up a specific project,
(laughs) rather than asking for permission
or asking for resources, they just decide to go ahead
and spin up their own things.
These things can occur internally on-prem
or they can occur in the cloud.
Pull out a credit card, spin up resources,
and start developing applications, and so forth
without having a formal vetting
of your security teams and so forth.
Data can be leaked out onto the web.
It can be exfiltrated from your internal resources,
again, because the shadow IT groups
aren't following processes and procedures
set forth by whether it's IT in general
or the security groups.
So these things can be a risk, not necessarily intentional,
not necessarily malicious,
but the mere fact that they're going outside of standards
and these projects and so forth,
are not necessarily even known by the rest of the group
or rest of the IT organization,
they can create those blind spots and those gaps in defenses
that can let attackers come in from the outside
and steal that data
or at least cause some type of disruption.
And the one thing that's not on the list,
but should be noted, is also competitors.
So competitors are typically motivated by financial gain,
some type of competitive advantage.
Again, they're trying to take out you
or their competitors by gathering that information,
beating them to market, or destroying their credibility.
That typically deals with theft of IP
or intellectual property or company secrets.
It could be also based on sabotage.
Like I said, they're not necessarily
trying to get ahead of you or beat you to the market,
but they're trying to take you offline completely.
And these groups can also be well-funded
and range from very low to very high skill.
So again, it depends upon the group
and the industry that you're in and so forth.