So if we dig in a bit deeper,
let's look at an amplification attack,
previously known as a Smurf attack.
So this is a distributed denial of service
type of an attack, as I mentioned.
And basically, the victim's IP address is spoofed
and ICMP messages, otherwise known as ping messages,
are broadcast to a computer network.
So the recipients will reply with the victim's
IP address, flooding it with responses,
because typically when you send a ping, you get a response.
Well, if an attacker sends that specially-crafted message
and spoofs the victim's IP address as their own IP address,
then everyone that replies, instead of replying back
to the attacker, will reply back to the victim,
essentially flooding that victim with responses.
So the goal being is to slow down that victim, right,
the PC, your laptop, what have you,
to the point of being unusable.
So that's the main goal of most DDoS type of an attack
is to bring that system offline
or at least bring it down to a screeching halt.
So some mitigations we can put in place.
These things can be mitigated by network administrators,
by setting a policy to disallow computers from responding
to ICMP requests or to broadcasts.
We can also configure routers to not forward broadcasts,
which is default on most but something to check
just to be sure.
So if we take a look at this graphically,
so you see we have a victim's computer over here
on the left and then we have our attack computer, right,
our bad actor, down here at the bottom.
And they will send a directed broadcast
with the victim's spoofed IP.
So when the attacker sends that broadcast
with the spoofed IP address, all of the hosts
on that network and again, there could be hundreds,
there could be thousands, they will respond
to the victim's computer instead.
So all of those responses go back to the victim,
flooding that computer with opened-end responses
and basically eating up all the resources.
Next we have DNS poisoning.
So DNS poisoning is also known as DNS cache poisoning.
And this is basically manipulating the data
in a DNS server's cache to point to a different IP address.
So the attacker could redirect a site's traffic
from a legitimate site to one that they own.
All right, so just something I want you to be aware of.