Another concept
while we're talking about network attacks
is rogue access points.
So you see here we have a typical network.
We have laptops, we have some desktops,
we have a wireless LAN controller, routers, firewalls,
all that good stuff.
The thing we're concerned with here
is our wireless access point.
So right now, that wireless access point has an SSID
or an identifier of PSIGHT-AP1.
Well, where this can become problematic
is we have a rogue access point.
You'll see here this new wireless access point
just joined the network.
And in this scenario,
that's a bad actor's wireless access point.
And what they're trying to do is essentially take
the legitimate wireless access point offline.
So we see that happening here.
Using specialized hardware,
they can send dissociation packets onto the network,
forcing clients to log off
or disconnect from that wireless access point.
And as that wireless access point goes offline,
the rogue access point comes back online with the same SSID.
So those clients that were dissociated
or disconnected from the network,
when they attempt to reconnect,
they will try to reconnect to the rogue access point.
So this can also be known as an evil twin.
So an evil twin is a rogue access point
that is impersonating a legitimate access point.
They use the same SSID,
it dissociates the legitimate access point
to make clients reconnect.
And you may ask, okay, well why?
What's the point of that?
Well, what happens is when they actually reconnect,
they may be presented with a login screen again.
And when this happens to someone sitting on the network,
they just think there was a glitch in the network
and they try to log back in again.
Well, when they put in their username and password,
the bad actor that's operating
that rogue access point captures that information.
And once they have those credentials,
they can go ahead and log in as that user.
So just to reiterate, dissociation.
An attacker can create a denial
of service scenario on a wireless network
by sending a spoofed dissociation frame.
So in essence, the source MAC address,
and we'll talk more about media access control
or MAC addresses in a later video,
but the source MAC address is set
to that of the access point.
So basically meaning when those clients reconnect,
they're gonna reconnect to the rogue access point
or to the evil twin instead of the legitimate access point.