Okay, so next we have something
referred to as an on-path attack.
And this is previously known
as a man-in-the-middle attack, right?
So you may have heard this, MITM or man-in-the-middle,
it's been recently kind of re termed as on-path attack.
But in a nutshell, here we have good old Alice and Bob,
age old friends, as we've mentioned before.
They're having a communication, right?
They're talking to each other over the internet,
or over the network.
They think they're having a trusted communication.
But, lo and behold, we have our bad actor
who pops onto the scene.
And what he's gonna end up doing
is jumping in the middle of that conversation.
So Bob thinks he's having a trusted conversation with Alice,
Alice obviously thinks she's having a conversation with Bob,
but they're actually having
a conversation with the attacker.
He's basically using a packet sniffing tool.
In this example, we're using a Wireshark.
But basically, he's inserting himself
into that communication pathway.
And then he can actually intercept those packets,
he can manipulate them, replay them,
basically adding or changing data.
Or just eavesdropping on the communication.
Interestingly enough, this same type of scenario can happen
in a corporate environment as well.
But instead of it being an attacker
that jumps in the middle,
we actually have our corporate proxy server.
So in a corporate environment, this is basically
referred to as SSL or TLS decryption.
And it's often employed
to inspect encrypted traffic for security threats,
or for compliance with corporate policies.
So usually, this is done through a middle box
or a corporate proxy server, such as a secure web gateway,
a firewall, or a specialized SSL inspection appliance.
However, deploying this SSL decryption requires
careful planning to maintain security and also user privacy.
So it's a bit beyond the scope of this course
to go into detail, but I will include
some additional information in the slide deck.
But the key takeaway here is to understand that this SSL
or TLS decryption is done to prevent data leakage,
malware propagation, and so forth.
And there should be policies in place
that exclude certain categories of sites from decryption,
right, such as healthcare or financial websites.
So that way, the user's privacy is maintained.
Another type of on-path attack is something
previously referred to as a man-in-the-browser attack.
So both of these types of attacks
have now been kind of rebranded as an on-path attack.
So here we have our victim and we,
of course, have our attacker.
But what happens is the attacker will send a malicious
piece of malware, or a Trojan,
gets installed on that victim's machine.
And that's typically done via some type of phishing email.
So once that is installed,
basically it executes when the browser's launched.
It will scan through and say, okay,
is there anything this user visits
that I know about, that I care about?
Or it will scan in the background
for if when they do visit one of those sites.
And then when things like banking sites are visited,
the malware launches in the background,
and then executes commands and transactions, captures data,
perhaps financial information, banking information.
Basically a treasure trove of information.