Hey everybody, welcome back to Pluralsight.
I'm your instructor, Christopher Rees,
and in this module we'll be talking about
mitigation techniques to secure the enterprise.
Let's go ahead and take a look at what we'll cover
in this module, we'll be talking about segmentation,
access control, application allow list, isolation, patching,
encryption, monitoring, the concept of least privilege,
configuration enforcement and hardening techniques.
And as usual, a little more detail
of the subtopics covered in the module.
You can go ahead and pause here and review at your leisure,
and then when you're ready, let's go ahead and get started.
Okay, now we talk about segmentation.
There are several methods.
Basically we wanna separate one thing from another,
and we can do that at the physical or logical layer.
Physical hosts on a network,
we can also logically create separate networks
or virtual local area networks.
And then virtualization,
we'll talk more about that in more detail in just a moment.
And then also air gapped,
or a network that is completely disconnected
from other networks, from the internet and so forth.
So if we talk about a physical
and logical, so you see here we have a physical network.
We have a number of hosts denoted by the circles here.
So we have hosts that are connected to a network.
So as you can see, they're physically connected
and they're all connected to the same switch.
However, we can also logically separate those hosts.
So even though they're physically all connected together,
we can create logical separate networks.
So in this instance, we have VLAN10,
and when we create a virtual local area network,
we can call it whatever we like.
I'll talk more about that in just a moment.
But in this example, we have VLAN10, we have VLAN20,
and then also VLAN30.
So we basically are taking all these physical hosts
that are on one physical network
and creating three logical networks.
So to put this in a different way,
here we have a multi-floor building,
and you can see the red lines here
denote the network itself,
the physical connectivity on each floor,
and also between floors.
So on floor one, we have a switch,
which is the blue box here,
and then several PCs connected,
on floor two, a switch as well along with several PCs.
And then, as you guessed it, on floor three, another switch
and additional computers or additional PCs.
Well, what we can do is actually create
virtual local area networks or VLANs
that will span these different floors.
So in this instance, we have VLAN10, VLAN20,
and then VLAN30.
VLANs themselves can group hosts
that are in different locations into logical groupings,
or put them on the same logical network.
So what it basically does
is create smaller collision domains, reducing chatter.
So you may think of this as if you walked into a cafeteria,
as an example, a lot of people talking
it's hard to understand because everyone's chattering
or talking over each other.
Well, if we take that same group of people,
put a third of them in one room, a third in another room,
and then the remaining third in a third room,
well guess what?
The chatter's reduced because we have less people
in that room.
That's basically what we're doing here.
We're taking all of the computers
that are physically attached on the network,
and we're separating them into logical networks.
And we may do that between floors
because let's say for instance
we have some HR folks on floor one, two, and three,
or perhaps they're in the graphics department or finance
or what have you, or even though they're sitting
in different areas, we can group them together
so they're on the same network.
That way their communication is segmented
between themselves.
Basically what it does is it creates a security boundary
to segment traffic
so those users really only talk to each other,
doesn't leave the network unless it's routed
across a network.
VLANs do have the ability to talk between networks,
assuming there's a router just like in a physical network,
but it creates that security boundary
and also a collision domain so that broadcasts don't pass
between those different networks and so forth.
So ultimately, it makes things more efficient
and it makes things more secure.