Next, let's talk about patch management.
So when it comes to patching, we have a few things.
Firmware is the software that runs chips
and pieces of infrastructure,
things like network interface cards or NICs,
host bus adapters, also disk drives,
graphics cards, et cetera.
And by not updating firmware
or updating firmware out of sync,
it can sometimes create compatibility issues
when other things are updated or if not in sync, right?
So if you update the firmware on something
and that conflicts with other components
within your machine,
you may have to do an upgrade kind of top to bottom
to make sure everything stays in sync.
On a general PC, typically not a problem.
But when you have very large scale pieces of infrastructure,
hyper-converged infrastructure and so forth,
we have a lot of pieces to the puzzle.
You have to take into consideration how to actually upgrade
to make sure that everything is done in lockstep.
And then when it comes to operating systems, right?
Vulnerabilities are constantly being discovered as we know.
And one of the best defenses is to keep systems patched
and up to date.
So if and when a cyber incident occurs,
hopefully it never does to you,
but more than likely, it will at some point.
When that does happen, first thing I'm gonna say is,
"Were your system's patched?"
So you don't wanna be on the receiving end of that and say,
"Um, no, I haven't patched anything
in maybe six months or a year."
"But wait a minute, that CVE came out of that,
vulnerability was discovered 11 months ago.
You haven't patched yet?"
Yeah, that's not a good thing to come back and say no,
that's referred to as an RGE.
I think I mentioned that one before.
A resume generating event, right?
We don't want that.
So keep things patched and updated.
And then of course, applications.
Applications just like OS and firmware or drivers
should be kept in sync as much as possible.
You may need to refer to your hardware compatibility matrix,
which you talked about are an ACL,
hardware compatibility list,
to make sure that updating one thing
doesn't necessarily conflict with another.
But as a general rule of thumb,
we wanna make sure we keep our firmware,
our operating systems, our applications,
all of those good things, patched and updated
as quickly as possible.