Okay, next we have something
referred to as SOAR and that is Security Orchestration,
Automation and Response.
So here we have a SOAR platform,
and this is basically a tool set
or an application that allows us to orchestrate
and automate certain responses to security events
that happen within our environment.
So as an example here,
we have a couple different things that will feed
into that SOAR platform.
So we could have events occurring on our network.
We could have a SIEM system,
which is security information and event monitoring,
or EDR endpoints, which are basically
applications installed on our hosts,
and that is Endpoint Detection and Response.
So that allows us to become alerted
and potentially mitigate things
at the actual endpoint or at the host.
So all of these three things can feed
into the SOAR platform.
And that SOAR platform
then can also integrate or connect to
or communicate with ticketing systems
and different types of controls.
So our ticketing systems,
like IT ticketing and change control,
and then also various controls like alerting
or whitelisting or third-party tools.
So in other words, we could have some piece of information,
a trigger or an alert come in,
whether it's a system event or something
that's picked up from a SIEM system or an EDR.
So one of those things trigger,
it feeds into the SOAR platform.
The orchestration and automation
could then potentially create a ticket
within our ticketing system
and spin up some activities to take place,
some work that gets assigned to various groups or users,
or it could kick off various controls
like alerting or whitelisting
or some type of third-party tool.
PagerDuty, as an example,
to alert our offshore team
to take some type of action to check in
and make sure something is up and up,
or if it needs to be further investigated,
so on and so forth.
So these SOAR platforms
are very robust and allow us to automate
a lot of things that used to be a manual process.
And then from there, it allows us
to kick off some things like playbooks or runbooks.
So what I mean by that,
a runbook or a playbook,
basically saying what tickets need to be created
or what changes need to be implemented.
So if something gets triggered
and we kick off a workflow,
it allows us to basically specify, okay,
what needs to happen?
And also in what order, what teams are engaged,
what level of management is alerted potentially.
Also, what additional resources
need to be called out.
Monitoring fail-over sites, callouts to specific groups.
Again, depending upon the nature of the incident.
Also, does it need to do any type of network changes?
Does it need to do isolation or containment or segmentation?
Right, we talked about those briefly.
All of those things can be automated.
So if they identify an attack on one part of the network,
it could potentially isolate
or cut off access to the rest of the network.
It could spin up clones or snapshots.
It could do failover,
perhaps to a dark IP space to allow things
to continue to run or, again, to isolate.
It can also kick off investigations,
start capturing logs or specific types of data.
It could initiate forensics with a preservation of evidence,
the chain of custody, all that good stuff.
All of these things can be potentially automated
via these platforms.