Hey everybody.
Welcome back to Pluralsight.
I'm your instructor, Christopher Reese,
and in this module we'll be talking about
tips for passing the exam.
So let's go ahead and take a look at
what we'll cover in this module.
We'll talk about tips for passing the exam, as I mentioned,
and that includes study tips,
a bit of a domain breakdown
so we understand what is in each domain,
just a quick overview,
and then exam tips along with key areas to focus on.
So first and foremost, what I want you to remember
is you have to relax.
You've got this.
You've put the time in, you've gone through the material,
you reviewed it multiple times,
you've gone through some study questions,
you understand the how and the why,
so just to understand that you can do this.
So as far as some study tips go,
a few key things to remember.
Review the material multiple times.
Don't think that you can just look at it once,
memorize it and then off you go, all right?
Review the material multiple times.
Take breaks in between sessions.
Don't try to do everything at once.
I know it works for me well.
If I had to review some material,
I think kind of get up, I walk away,
I go do something else for a while,
I let that information sink in.
There have been studies that show
when you learn a new skill or you learn something new,
when you actually go to sleep,
your brain will kinda rewind that
and replay it multiple times at very high speed
over and over and over again,
which is why you may have noticed in the past
that you'll learn a new skill
or some type of thing,
whether it's playing the piano or the guitar
or some type of thing that you practiced a few times,
you go to sleep, you wake up the next day
and you actually can play it better than you could before.
That's because your brain kind of does it on high speed
all night long while you're sleeping.
There has been some studies that have shown that.
So sleep on it and let your mind absorb material
and then internalize that information.
Also, take notes and put key concepts into your own words.
So while watching a video is great,
or reading a study guide is great,
don't just take it at face value, alright?
Watch it a few times,
but then also take notes and put it into your own words.
That helps your brain internalize it
because now you are crafting that message.
And then most importantly,
understand the why, not just the how.
So if you understand the concepts
and why those concepts are applicable
or why you're actually doing something,
it helps to cement that in your brain
and will help you remember those things down the road.
Also, give yourself plenty of study time and also prep time.
Don't try to cram it all in the night before, right?
This isn't high school, or this isn't college
where you're trying to just cram it in the night before,
pull an all-nighter, drink your coffee or do whatever,
and then try to go in the next day and take the test.
That's not the best way to do it.
Give yourself a couple weeks or a month or so to study,
but an hour or two or more,
depending upon how quickly you retain things.
But put that time in, right?
Watching the material over and over again
helps internalize it,
and especially when you do it over time,
it just cements those concepts.
So definitely don't try to cram it all in the night before.
Something else very important.
Don't try to just memorize the questions.
As you learn new concepts,
think about applying it in your environment
along with the how
and more importantly, the why you would implement that.
If you try to just memorize it, memorize the question,
well, there's a chance that
the question you see on the exam may be slightly different,
it may be worded differently.
So you think you know the answer, but you really don't.
You just assume,
and then all of a sudden it's the wrong question
and you answer it incorrectly.
Or you may not even see that specific question on the exam.
So if you think that you have everything memorized
and you can just go in and wing it,
it's not the way to do it.
Understand the concepts, understand the how and the why.
So that way, no matter how the question is crafted,
you understand, and you can answer that.
You can break it down in your brain,
troubleshoot through that process,
especially if it's a scenario based question
and then come to the right answer systematically.
Now, some exam tips that you wanna keep in mind.
Again, don't spend too much time on any one question.
Remember, you have a maximum of 90 minutes
and there could be up to 90 questions.
It will depend upon how many you get right and so forth.
But you have a max of 90 questions,
so don't spend too much time on any one,
otherwise, you'll end up running out of time.
Also, read each question carefully
and watch out for words like
most likely, least likely, best choice,
so on and so forth, right?
Those are key indicators that will help you
to decipher the right answer
because there may be two or three things,
two or three answers that are actually technically correct,
but if they're looking for the most likely
or the best choice or whatever the case may be,
there's gonna be one that will stand out above the others.
So make sure you read those things carefully
to understand what those key descriptors are
to help you decipher what the best choice actually is.
And as I mentioned before,
don't assume that you know what is being asked
before you fully read the question.
That's a very easy one,
that can save you quite a bit of frustration
if you just read through the question completely
before you give your answer.
Again, this goes back to memorizing questions.
If the question is worded differently towards the end
and you think you know it
and you just read the first three or four words,
and then you're like,
oh, I know that question and you answer it.
Well, they may throw a curve ball
at the end of the question that you didn't anticipate
and then you answered it wrong, right?
So just take the extra few moments,
read the question fully before giving your answer.
Alrighty, so let's talk about
a couple key areas to focus on.
Number one, fundamental security concepts,
such things as AAA, zero trust in cryptography.
So again, if these terms aren't familiar,
you might wanna go back and rewatch
some of the video modules
to make sure you understand
the ins and outs of these concepts.
Also, our common attack vectors,
what are mitigations and also remediations,
keeping in mind that the attack vectors will vary
from situation to situation and also platform to platform.
So if we're talking about operating systems,
we have one thing to consider,
if we're talking about network or perimeter security,
that's another.
Cloud obviously has its own set of challenges,
internet of things, again, its own set of challenges.
So each of these areas will require different methods
to secure or harden that specific platform.
Also, different tools and techniques
with regard to mitigation and remediation.
And as I mentioned, you understand both the how and the why,
which will of course make them stick
and allow you to apply those principles
even if the question or the scenario
is not worded exactly as you've studied.
You have the underlying concept,
you can apply that to that situation.
Another big area is mobile
and of course, cloud security, right?
Monitoring, securing, understanding what the threat vectors
or the attack vectors are,
understanding the major use cases,
and of course, the one-offs.
And then another big area is risk assessment and management.
So the various types, the various audits and compliance.
This area is not necessarily the most glamorous, right?
And there's no way to sugarcoat that,
but it is extremely important.
So I would highly recommend you don't gloss over this part,
even if you don't think you'll be
necessarily working in that specific space, the GRC space.
It's very important that you understand the concepts,
the risks associated with non-compliance,
both financial, legal, reputationally and so forth,
and the various types of audits
and the various types of compliance mechanisms
that need to be put in place.
And then wrapping that all together is the key terminology.
So we'll touch more on that in just a moment,
some things to keep in mind.
But understand that not just watching the videos,
but understanding the terms within the videos,
understand the definitions, the concepts
are equally important
because as I mentioned, no matter how hard you study
or what test questions you read,
you'll get something on the exam
more than likely that's different
or different enough
from what you've read or from what you study,
that if all you do is memorize the questions,
you're gonna be thrown for a loop.
So by fundamentally understanding the concept behind that,
you're able to apply your knowledge
to questions or scenarios
that may be different from what you studied,
which of course, will take you a long way
to being successful on the exam.
So real quickly, something that I wanna focus on,
we've talked about this before,
but just so you're aware,
the CompTIA Security+ exam guide has the objectives
that are covered throughout the video course.
This of course, is for SY0-701.
We have the test details.
We've talked about a maximum of 90 questions,
multiple choice and offset performance based.
90 minutes, right?
So one minute per question.
Obviously, if you finish some faster,
it gives you more time for others
that may be more difficult.
But just keep that in mind.
And then the exam objectives,
again, we've talked about each of these
and the corresponding percentage or the weight.
And we've talked about the fact that
security operations is 28% of the total exam.
As you scroll through this,
you'll understand each one of these are broken down.
General security concepts, 1.1, 1.2, and so forth.
Each of these groups of concepts
are broken down in the video in the corresponding modules.
So again, as you flip through this,
if some of these things don't make sense to you
or you haven't heard these terms before,
hopefully that's not the case.
But if so,
please make sure you go back and re-watch the material
to make sure the information is sinking in
unless you understand the concept.
And then if you go all the way to the back of that guide,
you have the acronym list.
So in here, are all the different acronyms
that are covered within the security plus SY0-701 exam.
Now, not every single one of these acronyms
are used or covered.
However, it's a good idea for you to review this.
That way if a question is referring
or referencing one of these acronyms,
you know what they mean.
It will help you to decipher what the intent is,
and again, apply the knowledge that you've gained
to answering the question or solving that scenario.
So again, when it's all said and done,
this should be your face.
You should be very happy
and expect to see this from each and every one of you.
You've got this, you have the material,
you put the work in.
So just take a deep breath, relax, and go get it.
Again, thank you so very much
for sticking with me through the courses.
Again, recommend to your friends if you like this,
you think they may find some value in it.
And again, best of luck
with your training and certification endeavors.
I hope you enjoyed the course,
and thank you very much for watching.