(gentle music)
Hi everyone.
My name is Christopher Rees
and welcome to my course, General Security Concepts
for CompTIA Security+.
I'm an IT leader, author, and trainer
and to date, I've created over 60 courses
and trained over half a million students worldwide
since 1999.
I've trained folks from small companies
to large Fortune 50 corporations,
every branch of the military, along with local, state,
and federal law enforcement.
I thoroughly enjoy teaching
and consider it an absolute privilege
to be able to play a small part in helping students attain
their certification and career goals.
So thank you very much
for spending your valuable time with me.
Cybersecurity is one of the fastest growing
and most needed skill sets out there.
With companies of all sizes
and every industry needing qualified,
cybersecurity professionals.
So a few examples of things we'll be covering in this course
are things like zero trust,
which are becoming increasingly more popular
as companies pivot to more remote work options.
Also, things like honeypots and honeynets,
which are increasingly being used
to attract and monitor bad actors.
And the popularity of things like cryptocurrency
has focused attention on blockchain technology,
which we'll cover as well.
Additionally, some of the major topics that we'll cover
include security controls and various control types.
We'll talk about CIA and AAA concepts,
and also PKI fundamentals, like public keys
and private keys, symmetric versus asymmetric encryption,
certificates, hashing and salting.
By the end of this course, you'll have a good understanding
of general security concepts required to understand
and assess the risks within your organization
and articulate those findings to your peers, management,
and partner organizations.
Before beginning the course, you should be familiar
with general IT and computer concepts.
So I hope you'll join me on this journey
to learn how to build a strong cybersecurity
foundational skillset with the general security concepts
for CompTIA Security+ course here at Pluralsight.