Hey everybody.
Welcome to Pluralsight and this course on CompTIA Security+.
This is the first course of the series,
and I'm very glad you're here.
I'm sure we're gonna have a great time.
This course is General Security Concepts
for CompTIA Security+ again,
the first course in the series.
And in this module, we will compare
and contrast various types of security controls.
My name is Christopher Rees.
I'm a Pluralsight author and an enterprise IT leader.
I've been creating training videos since 1999
and have trained 600,000 students,
give or take worldwide over the past 23 years or so.
So I'm very happy that you're becoming part of the family.
I consider it an honor
and a privilege that you choose me
to help you along this journey.
So let's go ahead and take a look
at what we're actually gonna cover in this module.
We're gonna cover the various categories
of security controls.
That means technical, managerial, operational, and physical.
And we'll talk about a few other names
you might hear these called by in other courses.
CISSP as an example,
has some slightly different terms for some of these.
We'll also talk about the types of controls,
and we have preventative,
we have deterrent, detective,
corrective, compensating, and directive.
So let's go ahead and dive in.
So before we get started,
I wanna talk about the goals of the module.
So basically we wanna understand types of threats, right?
Not all threats are created equal,
and no one control or one control type
can deter or prevent everything.
It's just not possible.
That's why we talk about the concept of defense in depth,
which we will cover more later.
But just understand that there is no one silver bullet
that's going to fix everything.
Different sizes, different techniques, different controls
for different types of scenarios,
different types of attackers and so forth
and also realize different groups
have different motivations.
So what motivates one hacker
or one hacking group or bad actor,
the terms are sometimes interchangeable,
what motivates one group may be completely
different than another.
So again, multiple control types are required.
And then also to reinforce the importance,
as I mentioned, of defense in depth.
So again, one size does not fit all.
Multiple layers of defense are required
to properly deter and to prevent breaches.
Just like with your house as an example,
you have locks on your door, you have locks on your windows,
and all of those different things are designed
to prevent different types of attacks,
different types of breaches,
just because you have five locks on your front door,
if you have no locks on your back door
or you leave your windows wide open,
an attacker or bad actor will simply move
from one area of attack
or one attack surface
or attack vector and move somewhere else.
They'll move from the front door,
which might be heavily fortified,
and they'll move over to a window, right?
Or somewhere that's a little bit less cumbersome
to get into.