So when it comes to threat types,
let's understand a few things.
We have something referred to as script kitties.
Now, script kitties is not necessarily kids.
It could be, sometimes it is, but not always.
But it means someone who's basically young in the game.
Someone who is not as skilled
as a seasoned or professional hacker.
So they may go out to the dark web or somewhere
and download tools that are already already made.
Sometimes there's kind of like, you know, scripting tools,
or scripting or hacker-in-a-box type of thing.
Or they can just download a specific program,
push a button, direct it somewhere, and off it goes.
They're not necessarily very sophisticated.
So script kitties are out there.
They can cause just as much damage as anybody else,
but they're usually not motivated by some of the things
that other groups are motivated by.
We'll talk about some of these here.
So then we have hacktivists.
Hacktivists are typically motivated
by some type of ideology.
They may be protesting something,
whether it be political
or it might be philosophical or religious,
or a specific event,
could be environmental, what have you.
So they have a specific cause in mind.
And then we have organized crime.
And as the name implies,
everyone is familiar with organized crime,
whether it's, you know, "The Godfather" or "The Sopranos,"
or you know, some of the more famous mafia movies in the US.
But it could be organized crime
from around the world, right?
Any part of the global infrastructure
can have an organized crime element.
And their goal is to go in and wreak havoc.
It could be for money.
It could be for control.
It could be espionage.
It could be all the above.
So they typically have a sophisticated group
and they have some vast resources behind them.
And then we have nation states or APTs,
otherwise referred to as advanced persistent threats.
So these are, as the name implies,
backed by a specific nation,
and they're really designed to go after high-level targets.
There's lots of resources behind them, lots of money,
and typically lots of sophistication.
And they go after things to try to disrupt infrastructure,
to disrupt political events
and things along those lines, right?
So they have a much grander agenda
than some of the other hacktivist groups,
or hacker groups rather, that we talked about.
And then we have insiders.
As the name implies,
an insider is someone inside the company.
They could be a disgruntled employee.
They could have been a plant, right?
Could be espionage,
they could be wanting to steal information
for profit, for gain.
Or they could be just mad at management, mad at the company,
and they wanna destroy things.
Again, different types of motivations
all require different types of controls.
And then we have competitors.
As the name implies,
competitors want to basically put you out of business
or slow you down so they can gain some type of an advantage
for financial gains, speed to market, what have you.