Let's talk about types of access control.
So we have a couple different ones.
We have managerial, so you may hear it referred to
as managerial, or it could be referred to as administrative.
So this revolves around policies or standards
and processes, procedures and guidelines,
risk management policies and so forth.
Account management or perhaps regulatory controls.
They're not a physical thing,
they're not a technical control.
We'll talk about those,
but this is one type that you need to be aware of.
The other is operational,
and again, you may hear this referred to
as a technical control.
So this could be things like EDRs
or endpoint detection, antivirus software
or malware software, anti-malware software.
It could be encryption, it could be access control,
whether that be mandatory access control
or perhaps discretionary access control lists.
It could be IPS or IDS, intrusion prevention systems
or intrusion detection systems, firewalls and so forth.
And then we have physical controls,
physical access being prevented
or at least controlled via things like locks or fences.
It could be man-traps, CCTV, or closed circuit TV,
or some type of monitoring.
It could be security guards and so forth.
It's things that will physically either direct someone
how to get into a building through a certain path,
or it would prevent that person
from accessing a specific area
unless they have the proper credentials,
the proper keys, passwords, so forth.
So if we dig a little bit deeper,
some of the classifications, we have deterrent.
So a deterrent could be a system
or signage that's designed
to discourage people from doing something.
So accessing a network as an example,
when they first log on, they might get a message that says,
hey, this is being monitored.
Do not proceed unless you have
proper credentials and so forth.
It could be entering a restricted area via signage,
or it could be alerting people to the potential
of additional controls like cameras, guards and so forth.
Next, we have preventative.
Now, preventative control types are designed
to keep someone from doing something.
How's that for a pretty vague description?
But things like guards or fencing
or locks on doors, windows, and cabinets.
Pretty self-explanatory.
Are they a guarantee?
No, none of these things are 100% foolproof.
Again, defense-in-depth is always the best approach,
but this is a specific type of control
to try to prevent somebody from accessing
or doing something they shouldn't be doing.
Next, we have detective.
So detective controls detect activity,
to use the the word in the definition.
But they detect activity
and then they initiate some type of action.
So that could be sounding an alarm.
It could be sending an alert to a SEAM system
or some type of monitoring or management software.
It could be recording the activity for later analysis.
Forensics or just looking through logs.
It doesn't necessarily prevent access,
but it can assist in analyzing
and also investigating that specific incident.
Let's take a look at a few physical control examples.
The first one is something referred to as a man-trap.
Oh, wait a minute, that's not the right slide.
Hold on one second.
All right, this is better.
So here we see we have a set of dual doors,
and this is referred to as a man-trap
or also known as an access control vestibule.
So you'll hear this term used interchangeably.
So we have, as I mentioned, a set of double doors.
The outside doors, which you see here highlighted in pink,
they are locked.
Typically, you have to be buzzed in.
Once someone walks into that part of the building,
that door will lock behind them, thus trapping them in
that vestibule until they're authenticated.
Whether a guard looks at them and identifies who they are,
or they have an access badge or what have you.
So that prevents tailgating.
It prevents someone from
unauthorized access into the building.
You may see these in municipal buildings
or schools, government buildings and so forth.
And it prevents someone from coming in, as I mentioned,
tailgating or perhaps bringing a weapon into that building.
So once they are authenticated,
then the interior door will unlock,
allowing access into that building.
Some other physical control examples is bollards.
And bollards, you might see all over the place,
especially in cities around government buildings
or places of importance.
You may just take them for granted.
But they are a type of access control
and bollards basically protect the entrance to buildings,
but they can also be lowered in most cases, electronically.
So those things will actually lower down
and allow traffic to pass over them.
So they're an intermittent physical control example
based upon the need of that specific point in time.
And then CCTV or surveillance cameras, of course,
they're pretty ubiquitous nowadays.
A lot of folks have security cameras even in their own home.
I know I have some around the perimeter
of my house on the exterior doors and so forth.
So they're much more prevalent than they used to be.
Ring doorbells or Nest doorbells.
So everyone's got some type of camera nowadays.
Everyone is surveilling either their properties
or their businesses or so forth.
This can also be actively monitored by security personnel,
live camera feeds for signs of intrusion
or malicious activity, or you can set up zones
within your monitoring area.
And if someone passes into that zone,
you can be alerted whether it's an alert sent
to your phone or a management system,
and then that person might check the feed.
So in other words, there may not be somebody
sitting there watching it 24/7,
but if an alert pops up, then someone can take action.
Another classification would be corrective or recovery.
So a type of control used
to get a system back online or back to normal.
So that could be restoring from a backup.
That could be updating antivirus
or anti-malware software, installing patches or fixes,
or perhaps firmware updates.
And then also recovery.
So that could be a disaster recovery site or an HA site,
or a high availability site,
or it could be, again, system or data backups.
So all those things put in place can help you recover from
some type of incident, some type of breach,
natural disaster and so forth.
And then we have compensating controls.
So a compensating control is something
that provides an alternate solution to a countermeasure
that perhaps is too difficult or too expensive to implement.
So as an example, you might have something that you need
to protect that might generate, let's just say,
a million dollars a year in revenue,
but in order to protect that thing,
it might cost $10 million to protect it.
So you may actually accept that and say, you know what?
It's too expensive to use that solution.
But we'll take an alternative path
that might be more in line with
what we're actually protecting
and return on that investment.
So we're compensating by doing something else.
We're not disregarding it,
we're not ignoring it, but we're using some type
of alternative that's a little bit easier to implement,
perhaps more financially palatable.
So an example of this might be gates or swipe cards
instead of actually having guards on site 24/7.
Or perhaps application wait listing
instead of replacing operating systems,
additional firewalls, or additional software controls.
So that covers the basics
of different types of access control.
Make sure you understand the different types
and the classifications,
and also understand the different motivations
from different types of groups.
Again, not all things are created equal.
And understand the concept of defense-in-depth.
So I hope this module was informative for you
and you learned a lot, but please stay tuned,
for up next, we're gonna talk about
fundamental security concepts.