So why do I bring all of that up?
Well, it's basically a segue-way to understand
that the attack vectors that go along with all
of these increased usages of mobile devices and so forth,
the threat vectors continue to grow along
with the attack services as well.
So message-based attacks,
well, it's an extremely common attack vector.
So fraudulent web addresses or links,
misspelled domain names and so forth, right?
All of that stuff can contain malware,
viruses, and ransomware.
So things like email, SMS or texting and instant messages,
or IMs, over 400 billion messages
are sent per day worldwide.
So that's a staggering number.
Only 15% are legitimate with the rest being spam.
I mean, think about that for one second.
15% of 400 billion messages per day
are actually legit.
So when we talk about spam, how bad is it really?
Well, as I mentioned, 348 billion spam messages per day.
62 billion roughly, legitimate, right?
So out of that 400 and so, 440 billion messages per day,
emails per day, only 15% of that is actually legit.
So just think of the amount of basically garbage that floats
around the internet that has no real value, is annoying,
is potentially criminal, clogs up things
just because people want to either take advantage of others,
send out ads, try to somehow get people to buy things,
or do things, or click on things,
perhaps without even knowing it.
All of these things are obviously bad,
(instructor laughing)
but if you look at the other side of the coin,
it gives security folks something
to focus on, something to do.
(instructor laughing)
So in a bit of a twisted sense,
it lends itself to job security.
So cloud email services continually get better
at catching spam, so that's a good thing.
And for hackers, it's typically a shotgun approach
and primarily a numbers game.
So if they put out billions of spam messages
and different things just at a very wide scale,
there will be a certain percentage of those folks
that click on it or take some action with that email
or that link or what have you.
So the more they put out there,
their numbers are good enough
to make it a return on that investment.
However, as we know, as security folks,
it's extremely important to continuously educate users,
not to click on links and to use common sense, right?
Common sense isn't always so common,
but the more we continually educate
and everyone understands that we kind of preach that mantra,
that security is everyone's responsibility,
hopefully these things will continue
to get better and better over time.
Now, some spam is caught by keywords,
by content, originating IP address or domain address.
So it's getting better, but it's not good enough.