So the point of all this
is we're talking about encryption.
So when we're encrypting data, could be data at rest,
could be data in transit.
We can be talking about full-disk, partial-disk,
volumes, databases, and so forth.
We're doing all of this
to basically keep it out of the hands of hackers.
So if we have a hacker that's sitting there,
whether they're in their parents' basement,
or perhaps they're working for organized crime,
or even a nation state, you know, at a much broader scale,
they're gonna be sitting there trying to access that data.
If our encryption algorithms and our methods are secure,
it's gonna be very, very difficult for that hacker
to get access to that data.
Does it mean it's secure forever?
No.
There are of course encryption algorithms
that have been broken.
But as we'll learn, the bigger the key length,
the stronger the algorithm,
the harder it is for that hacker to get access to that data.
So let's talk about encryption levels.
So we have full-disk, which means, as the name implies,
encrypting the entire contents of a disk.
So we're just basically turning it on
and the entire disk is encrypted.
BitLocker is an example of that.
You may be familiar with that on your Windows laptops
or desktops and so forth.
Also, we can encrypt a partition.
That's a partial encryption of one or more partitions.
Doesn't necessarily have to be the whole disk.
We could have just a portion of that disk encrypted.
And then we have file or volume,
encrypting a single file or files, or a specified volume,
and then also a database or a record.
We can encrypt an entire database
or a specific record within that database.
And we'll talk about some other ways
to secure databases in just a moment.
But just understand that there are different levels
of encryption that can be used to protect your data.
So what we just talked about was basically data at rest.
So data that's encrypted once it's written to disk.
So that prevents data from being read
if the device is physically removed or stolen.
But there's also something called data in transit, right?
So we're encrypting that data
that's encrypted prior to being sent over a network.
So that prevents interception while in transit.
Packet sniffers and so forth, right?
SSL, TLS, HTTPS or IPSec
are examples of data in transit encryption.
We're encrypting that data while it's over the network.