Okay, so if we compare
that symmetric versus asymmetric,
if we look at an asymmetric encryption algorithm,
it uses a two key public key, private key system.
So here we have two keys, one public, one private.
Same type of scenario here,
we're trying to send a message from one person to another.
The sender will encrypt that information
with the recipients public key, right?
So here you have the hello students message,
the encryption algorithm,
that public key is provided by the recipient, right?
So they're gonna share their public key with the sender,
right, let's use Bob and Alice,
age old internet friends since the dawn of the internet age,
or the computer age.
So Bob will give Alice a copy of his public key.
She will then encrypt the information with that public key,
send it across the wire.
You can see here the cipher text.
Bob is the only one that can decrypt that message
because he owns the private key.
And again, we wanna do what with the private key?
We want to keep it secure, right?
We give that to no one because of that leaks out,
then anyone could, in fact, decrypt that message,
or even impersonate Bob and digitally sign something, right?
So that non-repudiation that we'll talk about later
goes out the window as well.
So always keep that private key secure.
But in this example,
the information is decrypted with a private key
and we have the hello students back again, right?
So all is well with the world.
So asymmetric encryption, key pair is used,
one key for encryption, the other four decryption.
Public key is made publicly available, as the name implies.
Private key must be kept secret, as we've talked about.
Kind of beat that one to death.
Either key can encrypt and either key can decrypt, right?
So encrypt with the public key
and decrypt with the private key,
or encrypt with the private key
and decrypt with the public key,
when we're doing things like digitally signing and so forth.
So a message encrypted cannot be decrypted
with the same key, right?
Public can't do public and private can't do private.
So that's a key takeaway here.