Okay, next we have voice calls.
And when we're talking about this as an attack vector,
basically we're talking about bad actors
that can use voice calls as an attack surface.
So, things like social engineering, voice prints,
to fool authentication systems, which basically can be used
to trick users into agreeing to some type of action.
And then we can also use AI to mimic voices
to scam family members or friends.
So what do I mean by these things?
Well, social engineering we're familiar with,
but from a voice print perspective,
if a hacker or a bad actor were to call you on the phone,
make some type of spam phone call as an example,
and they ask you a seemingly innocuous question like,
can you hear me okay?
And if you say yes, they may capture that
small portion of what your response was,
and then use that
because it's actually your voice.
And they can use that to trick voice print
or authentication systems to perhaps authenticate something
or take some action that you didn't necessarily agree to.
So it can trick you into agreeing to some type of action.
And then additionally, if they capture your voice
through some type of conversation, again, a spam phone call,
they can take that voice potentially,
feed it into an AI system,
and then use your voice to scam family members or friends,
meaning they can use an AI system
to call a family member, mother, father, whatever,
and pretend they're you.
So imagine if you got a call from your son or daughter
or a family member and they seem very excited.
They seem like they're in trouble,
perhaps got in a car accident,
or they're stranded somewhere.
Well, if it sounds like them, it sounds very legitimate.
You're very likely to take some action,
whether it's sending them money, Venmo, cash app, PayPal,
what have you, and the quality of AI is getting such
that it's very hard to distinguish
what is real and what is not.
Something to keep in mind
in a corporate environment as well,
because if a user were to call in and say, for instance,
they're your CEO or your boss
and you're familiar with that person's voice
and it sounds legitimate, then you're likely
or at least potentially likely to take action.
So, something to be aware of.