Okay, next,
let's talk about the concept of blockchain.
So blockchain is an immutable,
decentralized digital open public ledger
that is distributed among a network of many, many computers.
So, once a transaction is recorded in the ledger,
it cannot be altered or removed,
and we'll talk about how that happens here in just a moment.
So this provides trust and transparency
and near real-time processing of transactions.
And a block is a batch of transactions
with a cryptographic hash of the prior block, timestamp,
and some other information,
again, adding to that ledger.
Editing or altering a block
would change all of the blocks that follow it,
and I'll explain that here in just a moment.
But it makes it a very secure system
that is very, very tamper-resistant.
So, as an example,
here we have a couple blocks in the blockchain, right?
Visually represented.
So, we have our ledger,
and everything that gets added
to the blockchain gets added into that ledger.
So, it was initially conceived in 1991,
so it's been around for a while,
even though blockchain has just recently started
to gain some popularity.
It's been around for a while
as a timestamp for digital transactions.
It didn't really gain mass adoption
or recognition until around 2009
when Satoshi Nakamoto used it with Bitcoin.
So, sometimes people will think that blockchain
and cryptocurrency are the same thing, but they're not.
Cryptocurrency uses the underlying technology of blockchain,
but cryptocurrency is not blockchain in and of itself.
You can have blockchain
without anything to do with cryptocurrency.
And the blocks within a blockchain
are comprised of a few things.
We have data, we have a hash,
and then we have a hash of the previous block.
So, in this example here,
we have our initial piece of data on our initial block.
We'll hash that data and we'll get a hash value,
and then we have a hash of the previous block.
Now, since there is no previous block,
when it's the very first one,
it's referred to as a genesis block.
The next one in the chain, as you see,
will contain the hash of the previous block, right?
Those things are connected.
We will add additional data to the next block,
and then that data will be hashed and given a hash value.
That process will repeat over again,
so you'll see on the next block,
we have a hash of the previous block.
We add data, and then we get a new hash,
and that process will repeat over and over and over again.
Well, let's say for instance,
we have some type of bad actor that tries to come in
and change the data on one of those blocks.
Well, if they change anything on that block,
you'll now see that the result in hash of that block
is now different.
And we can see that the hash of that block
will not match the hash of the subsequent block.
So everything from that point forward would be invalidated.
So what happens basically
is we have a thing called consensus.
This is a distributed ledger, a distributed blockchain.
There's many, many computers on that network.
If a hacker or an attacker were to try to go in
and do something like alter the data on one of those blocks,
he would have to go into every single computer
that has a copy of that blockchain and alter that block
and alter all the subsequent blocks,
which, for the most part, would be impossible to do.
So if you tried to, as I said, manipulate that data,
the hashes don't match,
the blockchain basically breaks at that point,
and it would be rejected by the blockchain, right?
We have to have consensus.
He would have to go into actually over 50%
of all of the computers on the network and make that change
for that to not be rejected by the network.
So, as you can see,
it makes it a very transparent
and a very trustworthy system,
and very, very tamper-resistant.