The last thing I wanna cover in this module is
the concept of a certificate authority.
Now certificate authorities or CAs
can be internal to a corporation or a company,
or they can be external.
In this case, let's talk about an external
or a trusted third party that's acting
as a certificate authority.
And Bob wants to communicate with a financial institution.
He wants to do some online banking.
So the first time he connects to that financial institution,
the bank will present its public key to Bob.
Bob can then use that public key
to encrypt session keys back to the bank.
The bank, as we know from our discussion
on public key and private key,
the bank is the only one
that can decrypt those session keys.
Once that happens, the bank can extract those session keys
and develop bulk encryption keys that they can use
to then communicate going forward.
There are a number of certificate authorities
out on the internet,
such as Symantec, GeoTrust, Comodo, Entrust,
GlobalSign, DigiCert, Thawte, et cetera, et cetera.
There's a number of them.
These are some of the biggest ones out there.
They provide certificates that are
basically installed by default on our browsers.
Whether we're in the banking side or on Bob's side,
they will trust that external
trusted third party certificate provider.
Bob can also check against the public key
that's provided by the financial institution
to make sure they're valid as well.
Much like a police officer, if you were to get pulled over,
you can think of the state as a certificate authority,
so the police officer will check with the state
to make sure that the credentials presented are valid.
He can also check with dispatch
and make sure that,
"Hey, is this driver's license still valid?"
Same thing applies here.
The certificate authority.
They can look and check against something called A CRL
or a certificate or revocation list,
or alternatively, there's an OCSP,
an online certificate status protocol.
Either of them can give them
the validity of that specific certificate.
Then that communication can take place over TLS or SSL,
going over an HTTPS connection.
And Bob can be assured
that he's communicating securely
with that financial institution.
Lastly, let's talk about a CSR
or a certificate signing request.
When a bank or a person for that matter wants to apply
to a certificate authority for a digital certificate
for various reasons,
there are some things you have to provide
and then it has to be validated
before they're issued that digital certificate.
So PKCS number 10 is the most common type
for public key cryptography standards.
And just a quick example of what is actually required.
You can see on the left here we have common name,
business name, department, city, state,
country, and email address.
All of those things must be provided
and they will be validated.
And you can see on the right hand side here
the example of what I filled out for this specific one.
But this is basically the bare bones of
a request that will need to be filled out
and supplied to that certificate authority
before that digital certificate would be issued.
Okay, so that was a jam packed module
with a lot of information around
PKI, encryption, digital certificates,
tokenization, and all that good stuff.
So please download the slides
and go through that as well
as there's some additional information there
that will help tie all these things together.
So I would recommend you download that,
and walk through those slides,
and then watch this maybe two or three times
to have it all blend together and all make sense.
So, again, congrats on finishing this module
and also finishing the very first course.
Up next is our domain summary,
and from there, please stick around for our next course,
which will cover threats, vulnerabilities, and mitigations.