Hey everyone, welcome back to Pluralsight.
I'm your instructor, Christopher Rees.
And now that you've made it to the end of our first course,
let's dig into a little bit of a domain summary.
So, I'm happy that you're here,
she's happy that you're here, (laughs)
and you should be ecstatic that you're here as well.
You've reached the end of our first course,
hopefully you found it useful,
so let's review briefly what we've learned.
So, Domain Summary for the CompTIA Security+ SY0-701,
General Security Concepts for CompTIA Security+.
So, this is the first course of five domains
covered by the exam,
general security concepts, which is where you are here.
And then the remaining courses are,
we have threats, vulnerabilities, and mitigations,
which is the next course in this series.
And then we have security architecture, security operations,
and then security program management and oversight.
So as far as this course is concerned,
a few key concepts to remember.
So as I go through this list,
if you don't have a grasp on each of these concepts,
if you can't recall them right off the top of your head,
then it's a good idea to go back and rewatch this material
until it sinks in and you can rattle off the concepts
off the top of your head.
So, a few key things to remember.
Control types, right?
The various control types, technical, administrative,
operational, and so forth.
The different concepts around CIA and also AAA concepts.
And then we talked about zero trust and zero trust concepts,
which is becoming more and more important
as remote work and hybrid work is now the new norm
post pandemic.
We talked about honeypots, honeynets, and honeyfiles.
So please understand the nuances of them,
why they're important, how they're set up, and so forth.
We also talked about physical security measures
such as a secure vestibule or a man trap.
We talked about bollards, cameras, CCTV, and so forth.
So understand the use cases for each of those,
where they should be placed in a room or a building,
and so forth.
And then we talked about PKI concepts, right?
A big module there.
PKI concepts around public key, private key.
We talked about hashing, salting,
different encryption types and so forth.
And then we talked about blockchain fundamentals,
which you should be, again, very familiar with.
Blockchain is not necessarily cryptocurrency, right?
So make sure you understand that distinction
and the nuances.
And then we talked about certificates, CRLs
or certificate revocation lists, and then also CSRs.
And then let's talk about a few exam success essentials.
Review the material more than once.
I know when I'm studying for something,
especially if it's a lot of information
or a lot of new information,
I have to watch it more than one time
or I have to review it, reread it more than once.
I will typically go through it once,
allow some time for that information to sink in,
so I might get up and walk away
for an hour or maybe even a day or two,
and then I'll come back and all of a sudden
I just understand it better.
Don't know exactly know why,
but it's just the way it works for me,
and I know it works that way
for a lot of other folks as well.
So allow time for that information to sink in
and then revisit a few times to help solidify
that information in your brain.
And then also, Pluralsight has a number of labs and demos
and supplemental courses that can help
add additional context and help, again,
solidify that content in your brain
and really kind of make that stuff stick.
And then some recommended additional content.
I'm a little bit biased here,
I'll plug some of my own courses.
But some things that can really add additional context
to what you're studying here,
and not just this particular course,
but all five courses within this Security+ exam,
Security, Architecture, and Design, The Big Picture course,
Malware Analysis, The Big Picture course,
and then our Introduction to Threat Intelligence course
all can add additional context and additional information
to what you're studying here.
So if by chance you're feeling
a bit overwhelmed in the beginning,
just understand it's not gonna make sense all at once.
Give it some time to sink in.
And as you go through this several times,
it will start to make more and more sense,
and I promise you everything will start to click.
So again, thanks very much for making it through to the end
of this very first course.
Stick around and I'll see you in the next one.