Okay, let's talk about the Internet of Things.
So when we're thinking about IoT or Internet of Things,
everything is a target.
So we need to become aware of all of the ways
that an attacker could enter the network from the obvious
all the way down to wearables.
And of course, as I mentioned, the Internet of Things.
So there's so many different ways,
so many different entry points
or attack surfaces on our networks,
and they're growing day by day.
Internet of things is a big part of that.
So when we're talking about smart devices
and internet of things or IoT,
we're talking about things like wearable technology,
and this is things that are always connected,
continuously feeding information about location,
about habits, right?
Telemetry information also increases the attack vector
as I mentioned, making interception of that data easier
and making inroads into the environment
that much easier as well if we're not aware
of how those things operate,
and we're not locking things down appropriately.
When we're setting up home automation as an example,
personal data can be compromised tons and tons of data,
whether it be financial information, personal information.
And what this really boils down to
is additional entry points into a user's network
and ultimately really into their life.
So whether we're talking about something personal,
a small business, or even a large corporation
or an enterprise, these entry points through smart devices
and IoTs are becoming more and more prevalent.
And as we know, social engineering becomes easier the more
a hacker knows about you.
So these smart devices
and IoTs can be sensors, they can be wearables, like I said,
smart devices in general, facility automation devices.
They make things more convenient, no doubt, more real time
and easier to manage,
but they also increase a company's attack surface.
And why is that?
Well, at the end of the day,
all of these things have one thing in common,
and that is weak defaults.
They're usually low powered devices that don't have a ton
of processing power to work on encryption and defenses.
So it's very important that we do what we can
to secure these devices,
and that includes changing the default passwords
and settings and routinely audit the environment,
especially in your company,
to understand what IoT devices exist on your network
and also what types of data they transmit.