So let's talk about security zones
and what that's comprised of.
So let's say, for instance,
we have our DMZ, or our screened subnet.
And then we have, let's say, a storage and database zone.
We have a vendor or a third party zone
where people that are outside of our network
may place some infrastructure
to work with inside of our environment.
We have a user access zone, remote access zone,
and then a PCI zone for sensitive information,
customer information, cardholder information, and so forth.
So all of these things are split up into different zones
so that we can cordon them off
or add different security policies
for these different zones.
And then as we go out to the internet,
we would have a firewall in place
to allow connections to come in but filtered.
So that way, the network is not wide open,
and we only allow certain ports, or certain applications in,
certain IP addresses in, and so forth.
And we can filter the information
or the data that comes into our network.
You may also place firewalls
even between zones within your network,
even inside the perimeter
to cordon one area off from another.
That way, it helps secure traffic
and make sure that not just anybody
can access certain areas of the network.
So in this example, we have a few users
that are accessing our corporate network.
They're coming in through the internet.
But we may also have a bad actor.
Again, this is where different types of sensors,
intrusion detection systems come into play.
Different types of monitoring, alerting and filtering,
along with our firewall.
And we'll talk more about
different firewall types here shortly.
But we may also wanna put additional firewalls,
as I mentioned, between vendor and third party zone.
So that way, when our vendors come in,
their infrastructure sits in a restricted space
and only certain components or protocols
or ports are allowed to pass through.
So they have enough information
or enough access so they can do
what they need to do within our network, but no more.
And then just keep in mind that a DMZ,
another word for that is a "screened subnet."
So you may hear those terms used interchangeably.
They both basically mean the same thing.
So I'm sure you know the answer to this already,
but I'll ask it.
So what's the point of doing all of this?
Why should we put all of these controls in place?
Well, we wanna reduce the attack surface.
We wanna make sure that we shrink the attack surface
as small as possible, that we enable our business partners
and customers to do what they need to do,
but not leave things so wide open
that attackers can just walk right in.
Also, the more we reduce our attack surface,
the less things are available for a penetration test
or any type of reconnaissance.
They're not going to see what types of servers we run,
what type of services, operating systems, and so forth.
So the less information we give up,
the harder it is for attackers to gain a picture
of what our network looks like
and how they might be able to get in.