Okay, so let's talk about network appliances.
So two concepts I want you to be familiar with.
We have jump servers and proxy servers.
So a jump server is a secured or hardened server, right?
It's gonna be more secure typically than an average server,
sometimes referred to as a bastion host.
So it's used as an intermediary gateway
to access resources within a secure network.
On the other side of the fence, we have a proxy server.
So again, this is also an intermediary server,
but this is between client devices
or web servers on the internet.
So it's used for functions like caching
or content filtering, anonymization or also load balancing.
So to add a little more context, jump servers,
they're used to connect to devices in remote networks.
So they can be used to perform admin tasks
in networks with limited connectivity.
That's typically how they're used.
And this might come down to firewalls, to bandwidth
and again, it's much easier to lock one server down,
make it very strict and very restrictive
and then allow people to come in through that one server
if they have proper credentials.
And they may have to have a second set of credentials
to access that server.
So it may not even necessarily
be their typical network credentials.
They may have to have a second set to access that server
which of course could be using multifactor authentication,
biometrics and so forth.
So these things are great and they're typically very secure
but it could be a security risk potentially
if not configured and maintained
if you somehow bridge networks.
Again, slight chance,
because if you're setting up a jump server,
chances are you know what you're doing
but if it's not configured properly,
it could introduce risks.
So these things have to be configured properly.
And then we're talking about proxies.
Again, just to give you a quick example.
So here we have hosts on our network, right?
They're gonna connect to a forward proxy.
So all the hosts that sit behind that proxy,
when they connect to the internet, right,
they're going out to web servers and so forth,
they're going through the proxy
and the proxy server can do all the things that I mentioned
as far as content filtering, anonymization and so forth.
We also have the concept though of a reverse proxy
which is a load balancer.
So you have hosts out on the internet
who are accessing internal resources.
So they will come through a reverse proxy or a load balancer
and then access the resources on the internal network
so that way that proxy server spreads the load
across a number of different servers
and allows for load balancing,
proper resource utilization and so forth
to make sure one specific server doesn't get overburdened.