Okay, now,
when it comes to intrusion detection systems
or intrusion prevention systems, two main types,
like I said, IDS, intrusion detection systems.
So these things have been around for quite a while.
They're fairly common and easy to set up.
And as I mentioned before, they log alerts and events,
but they don't take action.
They detect it, they don't prevent.
So they allow for passive
and reactive response and also for research.
And then we have on the other side,
intrusion prevention systems, or IPS.
So these are relatively newer in the grand scheme of things,
at least newer than IDS systems.
And they also enable prevention,
such as blocking IP addresses and so forth.
So the one downside is if you have things set up
to automatically block
on certain events or certain alerts,
while a false positive could block legitimate traffic,
and it could also conceivably
be the victim or the target anyway,
of a distributed denial of service attack,
which could then cause services
and so forth to be shut down.
And then when we talk about these types
of systems, we have two types.
We have host-based and also network-based.
And as you might guess,
host-based is on an individual host and network-based,
as the name implies, sits on the network and can monitor
the entire segment or the entire network,
whether it's an intrusion detection system or prevention.
So let's look at some components that make up these systems.
So we have alerts, which are messages generated
from an analyzer indicating some type
of quote unquote, interesting event.
So when we say Interesting, we mean, hey,
this might be something to take a look at.
Let's go ahead and alert on it and allow
a human or some type of automated process
to investigate further.
And then we have an analyzer.
And this process is data collected
from one or more sensors and looks for suspicious activity.
And this can be deterministic or it can be rule-based.
In other words, if it meets these certain criteria,
then act upon it.
Another term is data source.
So that's the raw data being analyzed.
It can be log files, audit logs, system logs,
network traffic, and so forth.
And then we have events.
So this is indication that a suspicious activity
may have occurred and it can trigger
an alert or notification.
And then if confirmed,
well, then, that event becomes an incident.
Some other components is the manager,
and that's the intrusion detection console
that's used to manage the system.
We have notifications processed
by which the operator is alerted to an event or an incident.
And of course, you have an operator,
which is a user or an admin responsible for that IDS.
And then sensors.
So these are the primary data collection points
for the IDS or a device driver
on a system or a separate physical device attached
to the network to collect data.
Okay, so there are four basic approaches to IDS systems.
So we have behavior-based detection,
and this is basically variations in behavior,
increased traffic, policy violations, and so forth.
Signature-based detection.
And this is where we use attack signatures and audit trails.
And then we have anomaly detection
and this learns what is normal or sets
a baseline and then looks for deviations from that baseline.
And then lastly, we have heuristic IDS.
And this utilizes algorithms
to analyze traffic as it passes through.
So it's really none of the above.
It kind of tries to understand things on the fly,
and then it uses algorithms
that are updated periodically to help it analyze
that traffic passing through the system.
So to simplify it just a bit,
but give you an idea of how these things work,
all right, here's a basic segment
or a basic piece of a network.
We have the internet, we have some type of shared segment
that might be a DMZ or a screened subnet
before it hits our internal network.
We have a firewall
and then we have our private internal network.
So one place we may put an IDS system
is right inside the firewall
so that as folks come through our firewall,
it can detect that traffic, it can analyze it as needed,
and then take action or at least alert
if it seems something that's abnormal or something
that needs further attention.
We could also place one outside
of our network in our DMZ or the screened subnet.
We could place an IDS system there as well.
And again, these IDS systems, we have a collection.
There's a number of sub components here, monitors,
sensors, and so forth.
And then that IDS system would log event data
to a database for both real-time collection,
and then also if we have to go back later in time,
maybe for a forensic examination
of what took place, things along those lines.
And then based upon what it finds
or the type of alert, it may send information
to our network operation center
or our NOC, or our security operations center
or SOC, which again,
they can then call out the right people,
engage the right teams, spin up the troops, if you will,
and investigate whatever activity is taking place.