Okay, the next concept I wanna talk
about is port security and 802.1x.
So basically securing physical access to the network.
So what do I mean by that?
Well, we wanna control the ability of someone
to just walk into our environment,
whether it be a kiosk or a retail store, a library,
or even within our corporate environment,
and get access to our network.
So we don't want just anyone to be able
to walk up, pull out a laptop, CAT five cable
or CAT six cable, what have you, and then plug into the wall
and get access to our network,
or connect wirelessly for that matter.
So one way we can do that is
through something called port security.
Now, this is particularly applicable
to things like kiosks in schools
and libraries, retail outlets
and so forth, not necessarily through an entire enterprise,
although you could, but it gets a little unwieldy
at a certain point.
But for specialized environments
and situations, it can certainly be a good fit
and make sense.
It can be used throughout the network, as I've mentioned,
but it really should be used in conjunction
with security practices like VLANs, 802.1x authentication,
which we'll talk about in a moment, and firewalls.
So 802.1x requires users to authenticate
before being granted access to the network.
So with regard to port security,
what we can do is configure a switch so
that it only allows one Mac address
or only a certain number of Mac addresses.
So it helps to keep unknown attackers
from sending multiple fake addresses
or someone we're not aware of from accessing a network.
So as you might be aware, when a client very first connects
to a network, right, and is plugging into a switch,
it's going to go out and try
to get a DHCP address from a DHCP server on the network.
So as soon as it does that, the MAC address of
that device is attached to that datagram,
and it gets recorded within the port
on that switch that it's connected to.
So whatever that port is, and again,
it's a layer two device, it will learn
and memorize that Mac address
and associate it with that port.
And so the switch will learn over time,
all the devices that are connected to it.
So in this example, the client plugs into port number one.
Well that Mac address then gets recorded,
and it switches the Mac table for that port.
So the switch will learn over time very quickly,
all of the devices that are connected to it.
But Mac addresses are associated
with which ports and so forth.
So that way when information comes in, it knows what port
to send that information back out of.
Broadcast will go out of all ports, obviously,
but let's say in this example we have our switch.
We have two PCs, PC one and PC two.
So PC one is connected to port one, PC two is connected
to port 10 in this example.
So if PC one sends information to PC 10,
it will go in port one, but only come out of port 10.
So other computers that are attached
to maybe ports two, three, four, five, and six,
they won't see the datagrams on the network
because the switch knows what computers are attached to it
and which ports it needs to send information out of.
So it's a way to help keep things more secure.
But however, as I was mentioning,
we have malicious individuals
or malicious activity that can take place
where someone could flood a specific port
and basically overrun a Mac table
on that switch and bring it down.
So by setting port security
and allowing only certain Mac addresses,
or in this case one Mac address per port, we negate
that ability for someone to do that type of activity.
We can also use that in conjunction
with something called 802.1x
to strengthen security at the wall jack.
As I mentioned before, with school settings
as an example, we're a kiosk or things along those lines.
So 802.1x authentication, which is really EAPOL
or Extensible Authentication Access Protocol Over LAN,
but it gives us the ability to say, hey,
when somebody connects to our wall jack,
we're not gonna allow them to communicate
until they actually authenticate on the network.
So basically, it only allows EAPOL traffic over that port
until the client authenticates with a radius server
or some type of authentication server.
So let's take a look at that in more detail.
So in this example, we have someone connecting
to the network.
They wanna communicate, but they need to authenticate
with something referred to as a radius server,
remote access dial-in user service.
So it's an authentication server.
So as you see below, we have a multi-part process.
This is the actual communication
that takes place back and forth.
So the client in this case is referred to as a supplicant.
The client is going to initiate a request.
In this example, they have their laptop
and they find an open wall jack,
and they plug in, like we said.
So the computer will attempt to connect
and say, "Hey, I'd like to communicate on the network.
Can I please have an IP address?"
And the switch is gonna say, no,
not until you authenticate.
All right, well computers don't actually talk like that.
That would be a little weird, but you get the point.
So we only allow EAPOL traffic basically through
at this point.
So as I mentioned, you can see the full exchange here below.
But for our purposes, just understand
that the supplicant will send information
over to the switch.
The switch will then forward it
onto the authentication server.
Once the authentication server validates the request,
assuming that the proper credentials are provided
and validated, the authentication server sends
that information back
and says, yes, yes you can communicate.
At that point, that port is now wide open and the supplicant
or the client in this case can communicate
as normal on the network.