Let's take a look at some data types
to make sure we understand the nuances of each.
So first off, we have regulated.
So this type of data is subject to specific laws,
rules, or regulations that dictate
how it must be handled, stored, or protected.
GDPR is an example.
CCPA in California is an example.
And depending upon the industry that you're in,
there are industry specific ones as well.
So data that falls into this category
obviously needs to be treated in a certain fashion.
And then we have trade secrets,
which is confidential business information
such as processes or formulas, or perhaps strategies
that provide a competitive advantage,
and is legally protected from unauthorized disclosure.
And then we have intellectual property,
creations of the mind, including inventions,
literary works and artistic creations.
These things are protected by copyright,
by patents or trademarks, or could be trade secrets.
And then we have legal information.
So this is data related to legal matters,
including contracts, court documents,
it could be e-discovery information,
attorney client information or communication,
and these things are subject to legal confidentiality.
And then we have financial information.
So data about an organization's financial transactions,
accounts, assets, including sensitive financial information.
So lastly, we have human and non-human readable data.
In other words, text or images,
and then machines by which we mean binary code,
which may include encrypted or encoded data.
So I say all of these things to understand
that we need to have specific policies and procedures
in place so we understand
how we're to treat each category of data,
how we're supposed to process it, store it, maintain it,
and then of course dispose of it.
So all of these things will have different regulations
and different stipulations,
and it's important that within your company,
you have these things defined.
So number one, you're following process.
And then number two, if things were to ever go south
or you're audited, or you need to detail
how you actually handle all of these things,
you have it properly documented,
and can recall it when needed.