So some terms and concepts
we need to be aware of.
First off is high availability.
So this is really two or more systems that are in sync
at or near real-time.
So failover between the systems occurs pretty rapidly
and to minimize disruption.
So as you can see here, we have one site.
Site A is comprised of VMware infrastructure.
We have an ESXi host with a number
of guest VMs sitting on that.
And then from there it goes
into a storage virtualization engine,
and it has SAN storage on the backend.
Well, here we also have site B.
And in this situation we have a highly available environment
so that if site A were to go down for whatever reason,
we're able to vMotion
or move all the workloads while they're actually running.
With a minimum disruption,
we can move them from site A to site B,
and actually move those resources, those workloads
and so forth over to the other site.
The users actually accessing
that data might notice a tiny bit of latency
as that v motioning is taking place,
but for the most part it should go unnoticed.
And then ultimately the goal is to have no downtime.
So again, when we're talking about high availability,
we can also look at it from a backup
and recovery perspective.
So our backup data centers need to be relatively close,
30 to 50 miles away if possible.
So that allows a low latency between locations
to ensure synchronous replication of data.
So again, data centers close enough electronically
so that we have that round trip time
between those two data centers low enough.
So our applications can replicate
and right to each location
with as little latency as possible,
so that latency sensitive applications like databases
and so forth can still continue to function.
So when we do a needs assessment, we need to understand
what systems and what applications actually need HA.
Again, as it comes down to cost, infrastructure,
complexity, maintenance, right?
Someone has to support all this additional infrastructure.
And these things, as you can imagine,
typically revolve around revenue generating applications
and things that are customer facing.
And then the second part of that assessment is what systems
and applications actually also need
offsite data replication.
It is possible to replicate within different zones
within a data center,
so that way if one area were to go down,
maybe a sprinkler head or something were to go bad
and damage one section of a data center,
the other section would still be up and running.
So you can do HA onsite or you can set up HA
and replication between data centers.