Next, let's talk about supply chain attacks.
So an attack on an organization
by targeting less secure elements in a supply network.
So these are advanced persistent threats, typically.
They try to get in and stay there,
stealthily, and just exfiltrate data
or see what's going on, monitor, and so forth.
So they try to get in and stay
for a prolonged period of time.
It also targets victims further down
the supply chain network.
So if a target company or a target victim is very secure
or very hard to get to, but they know that supplier A, B, C,
and D make products or services
that will end up at that target company,
well then it may be much easier to target that supplier
further up the food chain, if you will,
and then get into the company that way.
So some examples might be point of sale terminals
that could be infected with malware
before they ever get to the actual retailer.
Or infected USB sticks that are infected
before they actually get to the intended recipient.
We also have malware or hardware that's installed
on computer equipment or network gear before it reaches
a target company.
Again, there's been examples of routers and switches
that have been compromised, taken off of shipping equipment,
injected with malware or malicious hardware components,
put back together again, put in the boxes,
put back on the ships
or the supply chain delivery trucks and so forth,
and then delivered to the target company.
So let's take a quick look at a supply chain attack example.
So let's say we have a third party ad company,
and they are basically putting ads
on different types of websites.
So we have websites across the board here, right?
All e-commerce websites that display ads to customers.
Well, if an attacker is able to actually compromise
that third party ad company,
they can then reach out to victims at a large scale,
or victims that may be hard
to get to specifically or individually.
So as those victims then visit those e-commerce websites,
they're faced with the malware that was installed
by the attacker, and then any transactions
that they do with that e-commerce website could be skimmed
and that data sent to the attacker, right?
So they can do that at mass,
especially if it's a very popular website,
if it's compromised, he can reach a large number
of victims very, very quickly.
So let's take a look at an actual example.
So in July of 2021, okay, a few years back,
Kaseya was attacked by a Russian hacking group called REvil
by targeting a vulnerability in their VSA software.
VSA is their Virtual Systems Administrator software.
So Kaseya provides IT management
and remote monitoring services to MSPs and their customers.
So here we are.
Kaseya actually provides services via their VSA platform,
which is software as a service.
It is actually used by a number of MSPs
or managed services provider, right?
Think of people that have large scale call centers that do,
like I said, call center,
email monitoring, desktop monitoring,
could be security monitoring and so forth, right?
So they're doing a lot of monitoring
for additional downstream customers.
So they have all of the MSP customers
who then have their individual laptops and desktops servers,
networks, and so forth.
So the REvil Hacking Group was able to target
and attack Kaseya.
They installed malware on that company's VSA software.
So when that software was then pushed downstream
to the MSPs, you can see everything downstream
at that point became infected.
So the MSPs then passed it down to their customers,
who then passed it down to the actual target computers,
ransomware and so forth.
So it was a very large scale attack
that ended up impacting a number of companies
in a number of different industries.