Okay, so we made it
to the end of the course,
so welcome to the domain summary for security architecture,
and let's go over a little bit of what we covered.
So, here's our good friend Alice, who's not really Alice,
but (laughs) you get the idea.
So, for this one, CompTIA Security+ SY0-701,
this was our security architecture course.
So, this was the third course
out of five domains covered by the exam,
so you're more than halfway done.
That's outstanding.
I'm very happy that you're with me.
Hopefully you're learning a lot.
So, the first one was general security concepts.
Then we had threats, vulnerabilities, and mitigations.
Now we just finished up security architecture,
and then we'll go on from here with security operations
and then security program management and oversight.
So, each one of these domains is jam-packed,
and they contain critical information
that you need to be aware of,
so please don't skimp over any.
All five are equally as important.
So, let's look at some of the key concepts to remember.
We talked about the various cloud models,
so whether it's IaaS, PaaS, or SaaS,
infrastructure as a service, platform as a service,
or software as a service,
and where the responsibility lies within each model.
So, understand as a security professional
where your responsibility lies within each of these.
Also talked about secure infrastructure considerations.
Things like device placement, security zones,
setting up port security,
and all the different tools and technologies
that we can leverage
to make sure our infrastructure is as secure as possible.
We also talked about securing communications.
We talked about VPNs, or virtual private networks,
SSL and TLS,
and which versions should be used and which are deprecated,
and then things like SASE, or secure access service edge.
We also talked about the various data types
and classifications.
Some things that you should be definitely aware of
is how the different types of data need to be handled
and also disposed of,
and then also ensuring availability and resiliency.
And we dug into highly available systems, or HA systems.
We also talked about disaster recovery
and business continuity planning,
along with the different types of tests
that you should definitely familiarize yourself with,
walkthroughs, tabletops, partial tests, full tests,
and the nuances between these things
so that you understand when each is appropriate.
And then as we mentioned before, exam success essentials.
So, review the material more than once.
It's always good to allow time
for the information to sink in
and then revisit that several times.
What always helps me is when I start to learn something new,
especially if it's a lot of information at once,
I'll either read along as I'm listening,
so I get basically auditory and visual reinforcement,
and then I might walk away, take a break,
whether it be a couple hours or a day,
and then I'll come back again and re-watch that material,
and that way, it sinks in that much more.
And then also definitely take advantage of the labs, demos,
and supplemental courses at Pluralsight.
The additional information helps solidify the content
and it also adds additional context.
And then there is some recommended additional content.
(laughs) I'll put a bit of a plug in for my own stuff,
but Security Architecture and Design:
The Big Picture,
Malware Analysis: The Big Picture,
and then also an Introduction to Threat Intelligence course
would also be of help.
And then as I just mentioned,
make sure you definitely take a look
at the Pluralsight labs.
There's currently over 50 labs
and more are added all the time,
so definitely browse through the catalog,
see which labs are available,
and take advantage of them as much as possible.
The more labs you do, the more hands-on you have,
the more the information sinks in.
So, that's a wrap for course number three.
I'm so happy that you made it this far.
So, please stick around and I'll see you in the next course
for security operations.