Okay, so what is social engineering?
It's a term I'm sure everyone has heard,
or at least vaguely familiar with.
So a social engineer is a master
of asking seemingly non-invasive
or unimportant questions to gather information over time.
You know, they may have a conversation in a break room
and say, you know, talk about vacations.
Where do you like to go spend your time?
What's your dog?
Or what's your cat's name?
What's your favorite type of pet?
What's your favorite sport?
So on and so forth.
And all of these things,
they can pick, you know, little bits and pieces,
put those together perhaps to get passwords
or then to use that information
to have another conversation a day later
or a week later with someone else.
But they have enough information now
to sound a little bit more credible than they did before,
so they can now get even more information
from the next person and the next person.
And it kind of goes on and on
until they become very, very adept at painting a picture
as though they either belong there
or they have enough information
to start guessing passwords or what have you.
So a social engineer is a master
of just getting in without really being detected.
So what do they ultimately do?
They gain trust.
They reduce defenses.
And again, this is a one-two punch.
It can be combined with a number of techniques
to gather sensitive information very, very quickly
and also very, very effectively.
So an example of this might be phishing, right?
So phishing is obtaining sensitive information,
whether it's usernames, passwords, credit card information,
and it's basically tricking a user
into entering their info into a fake website.
It can be done through email spoofing, instant messaging.
It can be done through SMS,
which is basically combining those two terms together
and it's now smishing, right?
It's not phishing, but smishing over SMS.
And basically they can pretend to be social media websites,
auction sites, or communications from friends or colleagues.
They craft their communication
or the messages so that it seems very, very credible,
and the person on the receiving end then clicks on that link
or takes some type of action.
When it comes to phishing, we have a few types.
We have spear phishing, which is basically like phishing,
except it's very, very targeted,
it's well-researched,
and appears to come from a trusted sender.
Next, we have whaling.
Whaling is a phishing campaign
that targets quote, unquote, "big fish,"
hence the term whaling,
within an organization like CEOs or executives
for things like wire transfers,
tax information, or financial data.
And again, by going after the big fish,
that type of request isn't necessarily out of the ordinary.
And then smishing,
which is basically phishing attacks carried out over SMS.
And you can see here, you might get a text message saying,
"Hey, important message sent to you by so-and-so.
Code, you know, Visa debit card has been locked."
So it makes it seem like it's official,
but when you click on it,
it's gonna take you to either a fraudulent website
or some type of credential harvesting website,
or perhaps somewhere that malware
or ransomware will be downloaded to your device.
So to put it in perspective,
6 billion texts are sent every day in the US alone.
So 6 billion per day just in the US.
27 trillion texts are sent every year,
again, just in the US.
You can imagine how big that is across the entire globe.
Next we have vishing, which is voice fishing,
same type of concept.
So social engineering techniques designed to get the victim
to divulge personal or sensitive information.
Attackers pose as a legitimate company, a repair person,
security personnel, or someone of trust.
And again, they're very good
at getting information out of people.
And they can appear to be internal
or external to the company.
Impersonation, along those same lines.
Impersonation can be done via several methods.
It can be done via social engineering,
which we've just talked about.
It can be done via stolen credentials
or credential harvesting,
and then also infiltrating a network
and capturing or replaying packets on a network.
So we can impersonate someone
by basically doing a man-in-the-middle or an on-path attack.