Okay, next up,
let's talk about mobile solutions.
So as I think we all can agree,
mobile devices have really become the center
of our universe.
So if you've ever reached into your pocket or your bag
or your jacket and your phone is not there,
you know, what happens?
It's a scary feeling
that, all of a sudden, your work connectivity,
your personal connectivity, emails, credit cards, photos,
all of that good stuff is potentially lost.
So this pretty much captures how you feel when that happens.
Well, what can we do about that
and what solutions can we put in place to make sure
that this scenario isn't quite as scary?
Well, there's a few things,
and mobile device management in general really kind
of boils down to three things
that I want you to be aware of.
So we have mobile device management, or MDM,
and this is software that enables provisioning
of mobile devices, application policies.
It also allows for remote wiping,
not just at an individual phone level, right?
If you have an Apple or an Android,
you can wipe your own phone if it's lost or stolen.
But at an enterprise level, we have software in place
that allows us to do that for anyone's phone
that is within our purview.
So mobile device management helps with that.
We also have mobile application management,
and this is similar, but it provides more granular control
over mobile devices, especially BYOD,
or bring your own device policies
where policy enforcement can be at the application level
along with application containerization.
So we can kind of sandbox those applications
so that data from within the application doesn't leak.
So a user can't copy company data
and perhaps send it out from a personal email account
or a personal application and vice versa.
And then we have unified endpoint management or UEM.
And really this is an evolution of MDM, EMM,
which is basically enterprise mobility management.
And that's kind of an umbrella term
that encompasses both MDM and MAM.
But UEM combines the features of several technologies
along with being able to manage desktop devices,
laptop devices, and so forth.
Something else to be aware of is something referred to
as security enhanced Android, or SEA Android, or SEAndroid.
So this really boils down to being a security enhanced Linux
kernel security module,
and provides a mechanism
for supporting access control security policies
along with mandatory access control.
So what this does is restrict actions
that installed software can take designed really
to enhance security.
So one fun fact, this was originally developed by the NSA
and released to open source in December, 2000.
Not something you need to know for the exam,
but something I thought you might find interesting.