Let's get a little bit more specific
and talk about wireless security settings.
So I mentioned WPA3.
So WPA3 is relatively new.
It's more secure than WPA2, as you might guess.
So it uses AES encryption,
and it drops support for less secure TKIP.
So it also introduces a 192-bit security suite
for enterprise networks.
So for authentication,
it employs a more secure key establishment protocol
known as simultaneous authentication of equals, or SAE,
which is resistant to offline dictionary attacks.
So it's designed to be immune to known issues,
like the crack vulnerability that affected WPA2.
Also, ease of use.
So it introduces a feature called Wi-Fi Easy Connect,
making it easier to connect devices with limited
or no user interface in a much more secure manner.
It also employs forward secrecy.
So WPA3 provides improved data protection
by generating a new encryption key for each session.
That makes it much, much harder to compromise past sessions,
even if that past phrase is later exposed.
And then no WPS or Wi-Fi protected setup
that eliminates that potential vulnerability
that was there in WPA2.
So if you look at some of the differences
between WPA2 versus WPA3, as I mentioned,
WPA2 at AES encryption with TKIP as a fallback,
and TKIP is temporal key integrity protocol,
and that's really considered insecure today.
So WPA2 used either a pre-shared key,
or EAP, which is extensible authentication protocol,
for enterprise environments.
It was susceptible to that crack of vulnerability
or a key reinstallation attack,
which can compromise the encryption
between a client device and an access point.
Also, really limited IoT usability.
It didn't really offer an easy way for devices with limited
or no user interface, like IOT devices, to connect securely.
And then it also provided optional WPS
or Wi-Fi protected setup support,
which in and of itself was a security vulnerability.
By comparison, WPA3, it uses AES encryption, no TKIP,
SAE authentication, as I mentioned,
simultaneous authentication of equals.
It's immune to the crack vulnerability that plagued to WPA2.
It has Wi-Fi easy connect, so we now have IoT support.
Forward secrecy makes it much more secure.
Even if a session key were to be cracked,
it's only good for that one session.
So it would not provide an attacker
access to any other communication sessions,
and then it removes WPS support.