Okay, so I mentioned RADIUS,
let's talk about what that is.
So RADIUS is Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service.
So again, another fun fact,
this was originally developed back in 1991.
I won't read through everything,
but basically, it was a protocol
that grew in popularity for dial-up initially,
hence the dial-in user service.
But it's also used for VPNs, 802.1x, and much more.
And what it basically does is it provides
for centralized authentication, authorization,
and accounting, or AAA.
So the first standard was actually published in 1997,
then it was updated in 2000,
so it's been around for quite a while.
It's a fun fact, though, because there's not many things
that were developed that long ago
that are still widely in use today,
so I just wanted to bring that to your attention.
So when we talk about RADIUS,
some things we need to be aware of, so I mentioned AAA.
So Authentication identifies the user
and allows or denies access,
or challenges for additional credentials,
such as a PIN or a rotating code.
Then we have Authorization, so that provides things
like length of time allowed on a network,
access control list for various resources, and so forth.
And then Accounting, and this basically tracks the start
and stop time for each session,
and that can be used for billing or for showback.
So let's cover the key elements and what they mean.
So here we have good-old Alice.
She's referred to, in this example, as a client,
otherwise known as a supplicant in a RADIUS terminology.
And what she wants to do is connect
to a wireless access point,
which is going to be a proxy or authenticator.
Now, the environment itself may have
multiple wireless access points spread out
all throughout the environment.
We don't wanna necessarily have to configure credentials
for each and every wireless access point,
so what we do is we configure those to forward that request
for connectivity onto the RADIUS server.
So the RADIUS server is also referred to
as the authentication mechanism.
So the wireless access point
is really a dumbed-down device at this point,
and just forwards that request to the RADIUS server.
The RADIUS server then checks in with LDAP,
in this case, AD or LDAP, and will say,
"Hey, does Alice actually have credentials on the network?"
"What can she access?"
"Should she be allowed to access
any of our wireless access points?"
Assuming that she has a valid account,
LDAP will respond back and say, "Yes, she's been verified,"
pass that back to the RADIUS server,
and then back over to the wireless access point,
allowing Alice to then connect
and gain access to the network.
We could also add in 802.1 authentication
to encrypt that connectivity between Alice
and the wireless access point,
and verify not only Alice and her credentials,
but also her workstation or laptop itself.
So as you can see, a RADIUS server allows us
to act as a central point of authentication,
so we can have multiple wireless access points
throughout the environment.
It saves us from having to visit each and every one
or log into each and every one,
and configure individually
with credentials and what have you.
We can just forward those requests onto the RADIUS server,
which then checks in with active directory, or LDAP,
gets the information back, passes it on,
and allows connectivity or blocks access
to that wireless access point.