So when it comes to the acquisition
and the procurement process, some things to keep in mind.
There are many areas to consider
when going through acquisitions.
Vendors are a big one, we have to make sure
that their security posture, that their delivery,
that their supply chains,
and all those different types of things,
are in alignment with ours,
and we understand how those things function,
where they source their equipment from, and so forth,
'cause as we've talked about before,
supply chain attacks are real
and they're actually very effective.
So understanding under the hood,
as far as the vendors you deal with
and the nuances associated with how they do business
will obviously help strengthen your security posture.
Also in data handling and storage,
so when it actually comes to acquiring infrastructure,
whether we're acquiring it brand new,
or it could even pertain if we're selling our equipment
to a third party vendor,
to a gray market vendor or to a reseller,
how that data is handled and how it is stored
is extremely important.
We have to make sure that we're in compliance,
that we have data properly classified,
that we know what data lives where,
and that it is safeguarded appropriately.
And then also incident response,
this is where inventory comes into play,
because if you don't know where the actual inventory
and your assets live, what networks they live on,
what firewalls are in place,
what software is actually running on those systems,
it becomes much more difficult
to lock things down when an incident occurs.
If we don't have plans in place
and we don't know how to turn our networks off,
or ports off, or what actually machines are running,
what can come down, what needs to stay up,
as far as business continuity is concerned,
all of those things come into play
and they should be documented
and continually updated throughout that process.
Monitoring the same thing,
when we acquire new hardware and new software, right,
new systems in general, they should immediately be added
into some type of software management database,
and they should also be vetted
to make sure proper security controls are in place,
and also monitoring is in place
so that those new systems immediately plug
into our existing monitoring systems,
or if new ones need to be set up or acquired,
they are done so in short order.
And then along those same lines,
software assurance or BOMs, right, bill of materials,
not as typical as it perhaps should be.
We have a bill of materials typically for hardware,
but there can also be a case made
for having BOMs for software.
So with that, we actually understand
what components go into that software.
So for instance, if we have a log four J incident again,
or some other sub-component that's targeted
and is now vulnerable,
we understand it throughout our entire environment
where that specific piece of software,
or that vulnerable piece of code exists
throughout the environment.
Because those types of things, Java as an example,
can be used in multiple places
throughout the entire environment.
So not just a specific piece of software,
it could be ubiquitous throughout the entire environment.
So having a bill of materials and understanding
what components go into each application that we have
goes a long way to helping us remediate things
when an incident occurs.