Okay, so when we're talking about assignment,
ownership or accounting,
when a new asset is brought on board,
who actually owns the asset?
Is it leased or is it owned?
And then does the asset phone home
or send data outside of the company?
So when I say who owns the asset, do you own it?
Are you leasing it?
Are you renting it from someone else?
Is it a co-location facility
where you're housing someone else's equipment?
Things along those lines.
And we've also talked about geographic locations.
So if you're storing data
or housing infrastructure in other parts of the world,
outside of your home territory.
But in this context here, we're talking about assets
that are in your local data center.
So does that asset phone home
or send data outside of the company?
Some pieces of infrastructure, storage devices,
storage arrays, NAS devices,
some applications, some servers.
They will send things called telemetry data,
which are specific pieces of data about the health
of that piece of equipment that can be sent back
to the manufacturer to help identify issues,
help them create support tickets
so that the infrastructure stays online,
stays up and running.
This will typically be the case in larger environments
and enterprise environments
and so forth where you have service contracts
with the different manufacturers.
And then also things to consider is where does
that asset live actually within the environment?
Is it in a DMZ or a Demilitarized Zone
or a Secure Zone, maybe a PCI Zone?
Or you'll have additional restrictions put in place
that you need to be aware of.
And that becomes even more important when we're talking
about PCI Zone, whereas anything that interacts with
or touches data or equipment within the PCI Zone
is potentially in scope to be governed by PCI requirements.
PCI basically meaning customer information
around credit card data and things along those lines
has a higher degree of rigor
and a higher degree of compliance
that's required for those things.
So it's important to understand
that we structure our infrastructure appropriately.