And then we talked about ownership.
So data is typically not owned by individuals,
but it's actually owned by the enterprise.
So just an important distinction
to make sure that you're aware of.
And then also owners are assigned, typically for management,
for compliance and for accountability.
So not actually the owner of the data, meaning they own it,
they can take it with them, they leave the company, hey,
I'm taking my data with me.
No, it's owned by the company.
An owner is assigned actually to account for
and to manage that data,
perhaps for compliance reasons or to assign ownership
or permissions to other users.
Just a quick review of the information lifecycle
so that you're aware.
Information, like anything else, has a lifecycle.
Data is born, it has its useful life,
and then it basically dies or is decommissioned.
So let's go through this.
So we collect information, we can access that information,
we use the information.
It's basically stored.
It can be transferred to other people,
other devices and so forth.
And then when it's all said and done,
the deletion and the destruction,
kind of a birth to death or a womb to tomb, if you will.
And in the midst of all of that,
we have data protection that should be put
in place to make sure that that data
is actually protected properly.
We're protecting the CIA, the confidentiality,
the integrity, and the availability of that information.
Remember the three pillars
of information security and cybersecurity,
we wanna make sure that data is always available,
it's protected, and we can verify
the integrity of that data.
So basically, we're doing this to maintain
compliance with various regulations.
GDPR is an example of one, CCPA might be another.
We'll talk about those two in another module.
Ensure data is collected properly,
also used and stored according to policy,
and then destroyed once no longer needed.
And that's an important thing to remember.
The longer we keep data, the more cluttered things get,
storage costs go up, our risks go up
because now data is potentially discoverable
that we didn't necessarily want to be discoverable.
We no longer need it.
So when it's no longer of any value,
it should be properly deleted.
So again, this helps solidify consumer trust,
brand reputation, and overall transparency.
And it also helps guard against breaches,
unauthorized access and so forth.