And then when it comes to disposal
and decommissioning,
few things to cover here.
So we have sanitization,
and this is mechanically
or electronically erasing data on disk,
again, spinning disk or SSD or NVMe.
Then we talk about destruction,
which is physically destroying the media.
Whereas sanitization is basically doing that electronically,
destruction is physically destroying the media.
Then we have certification,
and that's typically a third-party company
that certifies the data was erased
or sanitized according to specs.
And then data retention,
which is basically policies
defining how long data is to be kept.
So when it comes to data sanitization tools,
we have a couple concepts here:
wiping versus deleting.
So sanitization tools overwrite the data X amount of times.
It can be 1, 3, 5, 7, 35 times.
It really depends upon what technique you use,
what algorithm you choose,
and that's typically user configurable.
But these things overwrite the data,
whereas deleting data
doesn't actually delete it off the disk.
It basically just marks that data as able to be overwritten.
You can think of it as having a book
and you just take the table of contents
and you erase that entry out of the table of contents.
The actual chapter is still in the book.
You just have to know how to find it.
So deleting doesn't do us a whole lot of good
from a cybersecurity perspective.
Wiping actually overwrites that data,
so that's not recoverable.
And as I mentioned,
the number of passes can be configurable.
And then when it comes to an SSD or an NVMe drive,
disk sanitization basically resets the NAND,
which is the chip on the actual drive itself, right?
There's no spinning disk.
It's just a chip.
It resets electronically the NAND
and then marks all of those blocks as empty.
So it happens very, very quickly,
and it makes that data unrecoverable.
Each SSD manufacturer typically
has its own secure erase tool,
and some PC manufacturers have some type
of secure erase mechanism built into the BIOS as well.
So a few examples of SSD sanitization.
Again, just examples,
not an endorsement of one over the other.
But Samsung has one called Magician Software.
Intel has one called Solid State Toolbox.
Corsair, SanDisk, OCZ, they all have their own toolboxes.
And then a third-party tool called Parted Magic,
which can do a lot more than just disk sanitization,
but that tool allows you to secure erase a drive as well.
So two examples.
Here's one from Samsung,
the SSD Secure Erase Utility I mentioned.
It allows you to go in upon boot
and actually then decide to erase
or securely erase that disk.
Here's one from a Dell server, and it's built into the BIOS.
If you scroll down to where you see Maintenance
down to where it says Data Wipe,
you can choose Wipe Data on Next Boot.
And then when you boot the computer,
it electronically erases the NAND on that SSD drive
and making it completely unrecoverable.
And then you can reinstall an operating system.
And then I mentioned Parted Magic.
So that has an SSD erase tool as well.
So here, you can see from the example.
It can do both internal and external drives,
and it can also do spinning discs and also NVMe or SSD.
So here, we would choose an NVMe drive, right?
Secure erase.
From there, we would just basically say yes, yes, and yes,
go through the various prompts and hit Okay.
And at that point, it erases the NVMe drive
by electronically, like I said, resetting the NAND chips
on that drive.
It takes just a few seconds.
And then when it's done,
it gives you a result of success or failure.
In this case, success.
The data on that drive has been removed.
It cannot be recovered,
and now the drive is ready for a fresh install.
So just a couple other things to keep in mind.
Data sanitization methods, we have DoD 5220.22-M.
That's a Department of Defense standard.
Basically, it's a three-pass, right?
And again, this is for spinning disk, not for SSDs,
but doing this basically makes that data unrecoverable.
We also have RCMP, which has a standard,
and that's the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.
They have a very long standing
of having a highly competent cyber division.
They've released standards as well.
Again, very similar to the DoD version
in that it has three passes.
And then we have secure erase.
So that's a one-pass, writes a binary one or zero,
very fast, and only available for whole disk sanitization.
So just three different methods to securely erase a disk
that I wanna make sure you're aware of.
So when it comes to non-digital data destruction,
we have burning, we have pulping, we have pulverizing,
and then we have shredding.
And we'll go into each of these in a little more detail
in just a moment.
And then for digital data destruction,
we also have something referred to as pulverizing,
degaussing, purging, and then wiping.
And we'll talk about each of these, again,
in a little more detail.
So when it comes to burning,
basically documents are incinerated.
So this can be combined with other methods
to increase security.
We can utilize shredding, pulping, or pulverizing,
and we'll talk about it again,
each of these in just a second.
But this could be as simple
as basically throwing some documents into a trash can
and lighting it on fire.
Or at scale, there are giant facilities
with massive ovens, for lack of a better term,
and the documents are placed in there
and they're incinerated.
They're of course, unrecoverable.
When it comes to shredding,
basically documents cut into small pieces.
We have long-cut shredders,
which are not necessarily considered secure
because if you just cut it into long vertical strips,
it may be very time-consuming,
but they could be put back together,
much like putting the pieces of a puzzle back together.
And then we have cross-cut, which are more secure,
and they cut things into tiny, tiny pieces
much like confetti.
More secure, slower, and typically more expensive.
They can't do as many pages at once
because of the nature of the cross-cut,
but generally considered more secure.
When it comes to pulping,
so pulping is paper that's placed into a solution.
So basically, paper is placed into a giant vat
that contains a solution that dissolves it into a slurry.
So that pulp can be reused at that point
and recycled to make new paper.
The downside being it can be expensive, time-consuming,
and of course, difficult to transport.
When it comes to pulverizing,
storage media is fed into a pulverizing machine.
So hydraulic or pneumatic action is used
to reduce the media to lose fibers
if we're talking about paper,
or to shards if we're talking about storage media.
The next concept is degaussing,
and this is basically using either AC or DC,
alternating or direct current erasure techniques.
So AC would apply an alternating field over time
that renders the data on that disk unrecoverable.
DC saturates the media with a unidirectional field.
But the end result is the same.
The hard drives are typically unusable after degaussing.
So basically it takes away the guardrails
on that disk, if you will.
Again, we're talking about magnetic disks.
So without going into too much detail,
a magnetic disk has tracks on that disk.
Much like roadways or highways that tells the disk
or tells the computer where it can write data on that disk,
by removing all of those tracks,
by removing all the low-level formatting,
it has no idea how to access
or where to place anything on the disk,
so it basically makes that disk unusable.
There are some tools
that enable low-level formatting of the disk,
but for all intents and purposes,
that disk is now unusable and should just be discarded.
And then once all of these things are done,
again, to maintain compliance,
you would use data erasure certification.
So this is documentation typically issued
by an accredited third party.
So at that point, that computer system
or that disk array,
whether it's a SAN device or a NAS device,
can be decommissioned properly.
It can be resold.
It can be turned back into the manufacturer.
Or it can be sent off for recycling.
But you can be sure that no one can pull those disks
out of that device
and access any of the data that used to be there.