Hey everybody.
Welcome back to Pluralsight.
I'm your instructor, Christopher Rees,
and in this module we'll be talking about activities
associated with vulnerability management.
So as usual, let's take a look
at what we'll be covering in this module.
We'll be talking about identification methods,
analysis, vulnerability response and remediation,
validation of remediation, and then reporting.
So we'll click down one level
and see what each of these topics entail.
And you'll notice that I have one section outlined in pink.
We won't cover that because we've covered it
in another section, but we'll certainly dig
into everything else.
So pause here for a second if you'd like
to read over what we'll be covering.
Otherwise, let's go ahead and get started.
So as I like to do for some
of these modules is talk about why is this important
so that you understand the application
or the implications of what you're learning
and why it's so critical.
So vulnerabilities are discovered,
as we know, every day with new ones
being created all the time,
whether it be existing hardware
and software bugs, it can be zero-day exploits.
Of course, malware and ransomware attacks.
All of these things are becoming more
and more frequent each and every day.
So by utilizing proper vulnerability management,
we help mitigate certain things.
And that is risk reduction.
By regularly scanning and addressing vulnerabilities,
we minimize the chances of security breaches
and of course, data compromises.
It also allows us to enhance compliance
because many regulations require organizations
to have a structured vulnerability management process
in place to protect sensitive information.
It also equates to cost savings.
So by being proactive, we can save money
by preventing costly security incidents
and associated downtime.
And all of those things, of course,
equate to reputation preservation.
So it helps maintain our organization's reputation
by preventing data breaches,
by ensuring consumer trust, investor confidence.
And that, of course, all translates down to the bottom line.