Okay next up,
the use of open source intelligence.
So what we're talking about here are numerous tools
and websites that are available for intelligence gathering
and basically reconnaissance.
So open source intelligence tools exist
as standalone applications.
They can be browser plugins, websites,
and they can also be passive or active.
And the key takeaway here is to understand
that these are publicly available sources of information,
and they're used to gather insights, data,
and knowledge about a specific subject or an organization
or an individual or even an event.
So in the context of cybersecurity,
we're talking about individuals who are their companies.
So it allows someone performing this intelligence gathering
to do certain types of analysis.
They can basically look at things
for identifying potential threats, vulnerabilities,
attack vectors, monitoring online forums,
hacker communities, data breaches,
and then also publicly available websites,
social media sites, Facebook, LinkedIn, and so forth.
So without digging into too much detail,
which is beyond the scope of this course,
but I wanted to make you aware of certain websites
that you can use to gather intelligence in various forms
and on various types of websites.
So take a look at these at your leisure,
and it's actually pretty eye-opening.
Even if you do a search on yourself,
use Spokeo as an example.
The information that's available about you,
places you've lived, phone numbers, relatives, your age,
I mean, a lot of things out there
that you didn't necessarily know were available
are sitting in databases that are publicly accessible.
And keep in mind that hackers
bad actors can use this information as well.
So understand that OS intelligence,
even though it's open source,
doesn't necessarily mean it's not effective,
doesn't mean it's necessarily weak.
By the same token, we have closed
and proprietary intelligence.
So these things are commercial sources,
so typically not available to the public at large,
part of a software package or a service,
and it will often have SIEM integration
or SOAR capabilities built in,
but the net effect is the same.
We're looking for data on a target,
and again, it could be used offensively or defensively,
and along those same lines, some vulnerability databases
that I wanna make you aware of, the Google Hacking database,
GHDB, and of course the website here,
and then we have Virus Total,
which is a very powerful website
that pretty much categorizes every virus
that's ever been made and allows you to upload code
as well if you need to have something analyzed.
Then we have the national Vulnerability database from NIST,
and I will go into more detail about that
in just a moment,
along with Mitre and their CVE database.
And I'll cover that in more detail in just a moment as well.
But just some databases and websites
that I wanna make sure that you are aware of.
So again, public and private information sharing.
So the Cybersecurity Act of 2015
is something you should be aware of,
and it provided a framework for sharing of information
between public and also private sectors.
So the goal here is information sharing across both sectors
to help strengthen defense and quicken response times,
and then also the National Cybersecurity
and Communications Integration Center.
So again, I just wanna make you aware
that there are processes
and programs in place to share information
between government and also private business
to make sure that when vulnerabilities are identified
and threats are identified, they're shared back and forth.
Now, does that always happen? No.
Governments being what they are, they will sometimes hoard
or hide vulnerabilities and threats,
because again, they can use those offensively as well.
So they don't necessarily share all the information,
but if it's something that could harm the public at large
or affect a large swath of industry
or private businesses,
those communication lines are typically open.