Okay, so next up is penetration testing,
also referred to as pen testing.
It's the practice of testing a computer system, a network,
or a web application to find vulnerabilities
that an attacker could exploit.
Let's look at the steps of a penetration test.
So initially we wanna establish a goal and set parameters.
We wanna understand what we're operating with,
the rules of engagement, and so forth.
From there, we begin reconnaissance and discovery,
trying to get a lay of the land
using some of the tools we talked about,
open source intelligence, things along those lines.
From there, once we've identified a target,
we'll use various methods to exploit that target,
perhaps brute force, to get actually access to that system.
Once we're inside that system, we take control,
and then try to escalate privilege
so that we have admin or root on that system.
From there, we try to pivot
and look at other systems we can get into,
and then move laterally throughout the network,
looking for areas that are vulnerable
or things that are not secured properly
so we can go back and report
and show them where the gaps lie.
We're also looking for crown jewels, if you will,
and information and assets
that will be valuable to an attacker.
And then from there, data collection and reporting.
So we want to be able to go back
and show exactly what we did,
the information and assets
we were able to gather as a result.
Now, when I talk about the rules of engagement,
some things to keep in mind,
rules of engagement should clearly define
what is in-scope for that engagement.
So what activities are allowed,
what activities are prohibited,
key stakeholders, relevant contact lists,
communication methods, and frequency.
Again, communication is very important,
and that also needs to be clearly defined.
So do you communicate only to a certain few people,
so most people don't know the penetration test is
actually taking place, or is it more widely known?
Also, how do you handle sensitive data
that you may come across?
Specific goals.
And then lastly, the definition of success.
So how do we know
and how do we define a successful penetration test?