So that brings us to validation
of remediation.
So what we're talking about here is rescanning.
Number one, we wanna ensure that the fixes put in place
resolved the actual issue.
So for instance, our scan turns up
some type of vulnerability.
We prioritize, we put resources to that, we patch,
we update, we do whatever we need to do
to remediate that issue.
We now need to rescan to ensure that the fix put in place,
actually resolve the issue.
And by the same token, we wanna make sure
that new issues aren't discovered as a result.
We also need to make sure we incorporate auditing.
So periodically audit the results,
and that can be either internal or a third party.
And we want to validate results and ensure accuracy.
And then verification.
So depending upon your industry,
regulatory and/or compliance mandates may require
independent validation of controls put in place.
And also the testing results.
Again, that will vary by organization and also by industry.
Now, when it comes to reporting considerations,
some things to keep in mind.
I won't take into each of these,
because most of them are self-explanatory.
But understand that when we report back, we need to ensure
that we incorporate all of the things here
as much as possible so that we give the proper information,
we tailor that report to the audience.
We need to have an executive summary,
but also technical details, documentation of the scans,
and then also evidence as to what was done,
the remediation efforts that took place,
and then the resulting scans after the fact
to show that they were successful.
Or if we haven't remediated yet,
recommendations for remediation.
And then something that's very critical
when we're reporting to management is
that we give a proper security assessment,
if we put everything as top priority,
everything as a 10 out of 10.
Well, obviously we can't do everything at once,
so we have to make sure we prioritize properly.
Number one for transparency, but also two for trust.
So that when we do bring them something,
they understand that it's for real,
and they'll fund or at least assign resources appropriately.
So keep in mind the reports need to be informative
and actionable and also aligned with specific needs
and requirements of your organization.
The actual business itself should be driving
those priorities so that we align with their objectives
and help the business achieve their goals.
Alright, that was a jam packed module talking about
vulnerability management.
A lot of good stuff there.
Hopefully we had some fun and you learned a lot.
But stick around, because up next,
we'll be talking about security alerting
and monitoring concepts and tools.
See you in the next module.