Hey everybody, welcome back.
I'm your instructor, Christopher Rees,
and in this module, we'll be talking about security alerting
and monitoring concepts and tools.
So let's go ahead and take a look at what we'll be covering.
In the module, we'll be talking about monitoring
and computing resources, activities, and then, tools.
So seems like a very short module,
but as usual, we'll pull back the curtain a bit
and you can see I have a few things here listed
in pink that are things we've covered already.
So we'll skip over those in the interest of time,
but a bit shorter module compared to some of the other ones,
but equally as important,
so please don't skip over.
Take a moment to pause and read through this if you need to.
And then when you're ready, let's go ahead and get started.
Okay, so as usual, why is this important?
Well, security alerting
and monitoring is the cornerstone
of an effective cybersecurity and risk management program.
Proper tooling, configuration,
and reporting is critical to risk mitigation,
to incident response and also rapid remediation.
Things like early detection of threats.
Effective monitoring and alerting systems can identify
suspicious activity early.
Again, this is critical.
It allows IT professionals to respond
before a threat becomes a breach.
So this can include detecting malware infections,
unauthorized access attempts,
and other indicators of compromise.
It also helps with compliance and regulatory adherence.
So many industries have regulations
that require continuous monitoring
and immediate incident reporting.
So proper security monitoring ensures
that an organization complies
with relevant laws and standards, such as GDPR,
HIPAA or PCI DSS,
which, as we know, can help avoid legal penalties
and also reputational damage.
And then we have improved incident response.
So when an alert is actually triggered,
a well-defined incident response plan
can be begin immediately.
So this reduces the time it takes to mitigate an issue,
which can limit damage, of course.
Also having detailed alert information helps diagnosing
the problem quickly and also effectively.
And then last but not least, operational efficiency.
So automating the monitoring
and alerting process helps in managing
a large volume of security events efficiently.
As we know, as an organization grows
and we add new things to the system, Internet of Things,
all kinds of different devices
are coming on board every single day,
security events are also going to grow as well.
So having operational efficiency can help filter out
false positives and prioritize threats,
allowing you and your security teammates
to focus on the most critical issues,
which optimizes resource allocation
and also operational costs.