So, as I mentioned,
as our networks continue to grow,
data is just increasing exponentially year over year.
So data in a vacuum without context is extremely difficult
to interpret and understand exactly what data is valuable
and of course, what is noise.
So an analyst is potentially faced
with a lot of information inroads.
Most organizations will have alerts, logs,
feeds and configs.
But depending upon your industry, depending upon your job
and what you're doing, it could also be forensics
and information from the dark web,
especially if we're doing threat intelligence analysis
or trying to enrich our data feeds.
So we're getting information from lots of different places.
So we need a way to aggregate all of this data
and actually feed it down so that we can search for bugs
and we can search for the tools
that the adversaries are using.
And by doing so, we can categorize that data
and enrich the alerts, as I mentioned, to track, to target,
and to deter or prevent attacks.
So putting it all together,
there is so much data generated
from so many different systems
and devices, compute networks, storage, IoT,
mobile, et cetera,
proper filtering and categorization is critical.
So application performance monitoring or APM,
and also incident management
and event correlation tools can help keep track
of all the data, help improve efficiencies,
and also prevent incidents.
So as I've done before,
I'm giving you some example applications and platforms.
I'm not recommending or endorsing one over the other,
but I wanna make sure that you have the information
and you have at least a place to start
to look when you start researching
some of these tools for yourself.
So on the APM platform
or application performance Monitoring, APMs,
we have New Relic, AppDynamics, Dynatrace, and Splunk.
There's some of the big players in that space,
and they have plugins and connectivity from pretty much
most systems out there.
And then for incident management,
we have things like BigPanda,
PagerDuty, OpsGenie, and VictorOps.
They're some of the big players in that space.