Okay, next,
let's talk about security content automation protocol
or SCAP.
So what this is is a set of open standards
and specifications to standardize
and automate vulnerability management, security management,
and security policy compliance assessment tasks.
So that's comprised of a few things
we've already talked about, such as CVEs,
common vulnerabilities and exposure,
which is basically a dictionary of standardized names
for vulnerabilities and exposures.
Also, CCE, common configuration enumeration,
common platform enumeration,
common vulnerability scoring system or CVSS,
extensible configuration checklist description format,
there's a mouthful,
and that's basically a language
for specifying security checklists,
and also configuration baselines.
And then open vulnerability and assessment language or OVAL.
And that's basically a language
for describing system vulnerabilities, configuration issues,
and also patches.
And then asset reporting format or ARF,
I don't make these things up folks.
So it's a format for reporting information about assets
and vulnerabilities.
Now, just in case you didn't believe me
when it comes to ARF reports,
and I probably wouldn't believe it either
if someone came to me and said,
"Hey, take a look at this ARF report."
But just to prove that it's real,
here's an actual sample ARF report.
And again, RAF is an XML based format
and it's used report information
about assets, vulnerabilities, and compliance.
Now again, this is a simplified output.
A real ARF report or a real ARF document
can contain a wide range of additional information.
But if we take a look here, we'll see that right here,
this ARF:asset report
serves as the root of the ARF document.
And then down here where we see ARF:report host,
those elements represent individual assets, network hosts,
or devices.
So information about each one of these devices
includes its host name, its operating system, IP address,
additional asset identifiers,
such as common platform enumeration or CPE information,
vulnerability information,
and also compliance status.
So there's a lot of information generated in these reports,
and it will vary depending upon the tool that's used
to actually generate that report.
But just so you're familiar,
I wanted to give you a quick peek
at what a sample output would look like.