Now, we've talked about SIEM,
or security information and event management,
but since we're on the topic of content aggregation,
data aggregation and correlation, this fits right in.
So a SIEM system, as we know, does, as I mentioned,
data aggregation, correlation,
automated alerting and triggers.
It also does time synchronization,
and then event deduplication,
and then it writes logs in a WORM format,
write once, read many.
So basically, as we've talked about before,
a SIEM system allows us to aggregate data
from a number of different sources, disparate sources,
pull them all together, correlate those logs,
and correlate the triggers
so we can get a holistic view of our environment.
So as an example, here's the dashboard of a SIEM system,
and basically just want to show you
that it aggregates data from all these different sources
and gives it to you in a graphical format
to show you maybe there's a spike in one area,
but not in another, or you might see spikes
across a number of different things all at once.
We'll talk more about that in just a moment.
That may be an indicator of some compromise,
or it might be an indicator of a network event,
a breach, data exfiltration, and so forth.
So any one of these widgets,
you could basically dig down into,
and it would show you a detailed view of that traffic,
and then more information about the specific packets,
the information in those packets, and so forth.
They can show you things like source
and destination IP address, the contents of packets,
what types of packets were flowing back and forth,
things along those lines.
So from a correlation perspective,
here, we have a SIEM dashboard,
and I have a bunch of swim lanes listed out here.
Now, this is not necessarily everything
that a SIEM system would capture.
There's obviously more data points that I can pull in,
but just to give you an example, I'm showing application,
network, storage, firewall, and compute,
and you can see we have a timescale here.
We have different events happening.
We can see network utilization is up from three to 5:00 PM,
but not necessarily storage.
Well, as we're watching these things,
if we see things spike up,
then that could potentially be an indicator
that something's taking place, some unusual activity.
So in an automated environment,
that will kick off some type of alerting,
and it would allow us to, first of all, be aware of it,
and then secondly, either in an automated fashion,
kick off some process or some script,
even if it's just logging, or it could alert us to go in
and manually start looking at what's taking place.
Another way of handling the same types of data
are log management platforms.
So log management can help reduce complexity, cost,
and also increase speed on the ingestion
for downstream consumers.
So it improves data quality, so we're normalizing that data.
We're parsing through and filtering uninteresting traffic.
It allows us to reduce cost.
It optimizes our SIEM systems,
it reduces storage and also ingestion costs,
because all the data that we're pulling in,
it has to be parsed and stored somewhere,
so we want to reduce the amount of data
that we're ingesting wherever possible,
but without reducing quality and compromising results.
It can also improve security,
so we encrypt data both in motion and at rest.
So again, here, we have all the different things
that we're monitoring.
We can filter that through something like a syslog server,
either a relay or server,
and then pass that data on to our SIEM system,
whether it's Splunk, ELK, Kafka, what have you.
So any of those systems then can ingest
that normalized and parsed data,
so they're ingesting less data,
and if we configure things properly,
they're ingesting the right data,
so it makes things more optimized.