Okay, up next SNMP
or Simple Network Management Protocol and SNMP traps.
So what I want you to be aware of is SNMP,
or the Simple Network Management Protocol,
is used for managing and monitoring
network devices and systems.
So version three is the latest,
and it's also the most secure in that it provides
authentication, data integrity, and encryption.
Version one and version two used something referred
to as community strings, which were basically passwords,
but they were sent in clear text.
So no real security there.
So SNMP Version 3 is the one we should use
wherever possible as that's the most secure.
So as an example here, we have a bunch of network switches,
and they will have SNMP agents on them.
So the SNMP agent can either be built-in in firmware,
or it can be software that runs on top of that device.
And without going into too much detail,
each of these different devices have what's called a MIB
and an OID, and it's basically just a moniker,
or a designation that tells you what the device is,
and the various capabilities within that device.
So these agents will be configured to report into a manager,
and the manager then aggregates
all the different traps or alerts.
Trap is another word for an alert from the different agents.
And it could be something that's happening on the network,
something's down, a port is down, or a system's offline.
And the manager can also query the agents
and also configure the agents if set up properly.
So for your own information, it operates over TCP
and UDP Port 161.
Typically it will be UDP.
And as I said, the manager can send a GetRequest,
a NextRequest, a BulkRequest, or a SetRequest.
And these are requests that the manager will send
to an agent, say, hey, give me some information
about your capabilities, what you can do,
how you configured?
Or I'll send a SetRequest,
and that's where I'm telling the agent
how to configure something.
So these are messages that are sent
from the manager to the agent.
Traps, on the other hand, can be thought of as alerts,
and then traps are sent from the agent to the manager.
And these are typically unsolicited,
meaning the agent initiates that communication,
and it's used to report events, alerts, and so forth.
And then lastly, for your own information
is an InformRequest.
And this is a message that's similar to a trap,
however, it requires a response from the manager,
so it's considered more reliable.