Next, let's talk about web filters.
So a web filter can be agent-based.
So we have agents actually running on the devices
that are trying to connect to the internet.
It also typically will include a centralized proxy
where all of our requests will go through.
So we can set policies, inspect traffic,
potentially block things from leaving our network,
as well as scan from malware
and other things trying to come into our network.
Then we have universal resource locator or URL scanning,
so we can scan web addresses
before they go out to the internet.
So in other words, the folks inside of our network
are trying to access sites
that we deem inappropriate or not safe,
or content that we don't want
to be displayed while at work, et cetera.
We can block those things by scanning for the URLs
before that web traffic actually leaves our network
and goes out to the internet.
We also can set rules around content categorization,
so things like firearms or explosives,
or things that might be harmful,
or, again, things we don't wanna see at work.
Typically it's gonna be things around firearms or anarchy,
or not safe for work material,
pornography and things along those lines.
And then we can have block rules,
which are a little more specific,
but it blocks things like certain types of content,
certain types of downloads.
It could be a certain type of applet
or a certain type of extension,
executables, so on and so forth.
And then we have reputation filters.
So in the context of a web filter,
it's a component or a feature that's designed
to assess and categorize websites
or web content based upon
their own reputation or trustworthiness.
So in essence, it's an important part of web filtering,
and it's used to control and manage internet access
in some organizations, schools, and other environments.
Okay, so here we have an example of
a web filter or a centralized proxy example.
So as you can see, we have some infrastructure here.
We have some computers, laptops,
mobile devices inside of our network.
And there's a proxy or a web filter sitting on
the outside of, the perimeter of that network
that access the gateway
for sites trying to access the internet.
So we can see here, we have a number
of devices trying to access the internet.
So they're gonna go through the web filter,
they go out to the internet,
and of course out to their respective websites.
That's how things typically function
without any web filtering in place.
So if you're inside your network, you type in a website,
you get the website basically.
Well, if we set it up where we have blocking rules now,
or some type of content filtering,
content categorization, and so forth.
In other words, we're setting up some rules
that say there are certain types of websites
that you cannot access.
And in this example, we have website E.
We've deemed that that type of website, for whatever reason,
whether it's based on content,
perhaps languages displaying, reputation,
et cetera, et cetera,
we've deemed that specific website is
not appropriate for work.
So now when the user on their laptop
or mobile device tries to access that website,
it's gonna hit that content filter and be blocked.
So I'm showing the connection here
from the internet out to website E in red,
just to show the path that it would've taken.
But since the proxy
or web filter had blocked that connection,
that connection would actually never take place.
So the user will be displayed some type
of webpage saying this content has been blocked
for whatever reason, and display whether it's again,
content, categorization, reputation, inappropriate content,
and so forth.