When we're talking about
operating system security,
a couple things to keep in mind.
We have Group Policy.
And Group Policy allows for centralized management
and enforcement of user and computer settings
across an organization.
So we can set policies that apply
to a specific organizational unit or a specific group
and say, these folks are allowed to do XYZ,
and these folks are not.
So we can be very prescriptive as to who can access what.
So if you want to dig more into Group Policy,
Pluralsight has a number of excellent videos
and excellent courses on Windows administration,
server administration, and Group Policy specifically.
So I would refer you to those videos
for a deeper discussion on Group Policy.
And then we have SELinux, which is along the same lines
as we talked about before, SE Android.
So this is an enhanced layer of security
available with some flavors of Linux,
and it enables mandatory access control lists or MACs.
So in a little more detail.
So SELinux implements something referred to
as mandatory access control.
So unlike traditional discretionary access control lists
or DACs, where permissions are based on ownership
and group membership.
SELinux enforces a mandatory access control model.
So this ensures that even privileged users
and processes adhere to security policies,
so they're not able to override those.
And then also process isolation and containment.
So this in essence, isolates processes
and services from each other,
preventing them from interfering with
or compromising one another.
So this containment helps contain security breaches
to a specific process or service,
reducing the overall impact.
So it also enables protection against privilege escalation
and zero-day mitigation.
So in essence, it mitigates these things
and the risk of zero-days
by restricting the actions of a process.
So even if an attacker gains access to a system
through an unknown vulnerability, a zero-day and so forth,
SELinux can limit what that attacker can do.
They can't escalate privileges
and do things that they shouldn't be able to do.
So as I mentioned before, certain flavors of Linux
such as RedHat Enterprise Linux or RHEL,
and also CentOS are enterprise grade distributions of Linux,
and they have SELinux enabled by default,
Fedora being another distribution as well.
Other ones like Debian and Ubuntu, they have it available,
but it's not enabled by default.
So there are additional features
that need to either be downloaded, installed, and enabled.