Okay, next, let's talk about email security,
and a few things I want you to be familiar with.
We have the concept of DMARC, DKIM, and SPF.
So DMARC standing for Domain-based Message Authentication,
Reporting, and Conformance, right?
That's a mouthful.
SPF is Sender Policy Framework,
and DKIM is DomainKeys Identified Mail.
So we'll talk about each of these in just a second.
So the gist of what these things
are designed to do is basically reduce spam
and spoofing and basically hackers using email
to launch attacks on various organizations,
and also give organizations an idea
of how their emails or their email domains
are being utilized; if they're being hacked,
spoofed, and so forth.
So if a sender wants to implement DMARC, DKIM, and SPF,
they will initially log into their DNS server
and they'll publish a few records.
They'll publish the SPF, DKIM, and DMARC records into DNS,
which basically specifies
what IP addresses can emails originate from.
It will also validate the header information from an email.
So the sender will actually publish their public key
in the DNS record, and then every time
an email gets sent from that sender,
they will sign that message with their private key.
It's in the header field of their email message,
so that way, the recipient can then check DNS
and verify via the public key that the sender
is who they say they are.
Okay, so let's walk through this.
So the sender sends an email,
so he sends it to his email server.
His email server then sends it over
to a receiving email server.
That receiving email server then will check DNS to see
if there is a DKIM and an SPF policy in place,
and it'll also test to see if those things pass or fail.
Now, DMARC kind of ties all these things together.
Again, the originating organization,
the DNS server will publish a DMARC policy,
the receiving email server queries DNS
and sees what that DMARC policy is.
It can either be,
Accept if that email is validated, go ahead and deliver.
In other words, our policy equals none.
We can send it to Quarantine.
So if it fails those checks,
those DKIM and SPF checks,
then we can place it into a junk or a spam folder,
or we can say, no way,
if it actually fails, don't even deliver it.
Just drop it, market it is undelivered.
Don't deliver it to the recipient at all.
And then we can also send reports
back to the originating email sender to let them know
how their domain is actually being utilized.
We can send an aggregate report
that just shows everything that comes through,
and we can also show a failure report
or a forensics report so they can see
how often their email domain is being spoofed or spammed.
Now, the recommendations
are when you very first set these things up,
set the policy to None for a period of time,
so you have an opportunity to tune things,
because if you set it to reject right off the bat,
you may have things not tuned properly
and your emails won't be delivered.
So it's definitely recommended to be a phased-in approach.
Next, on the same topic, we have email gateways.
So an email gateway manages
and secures the flow of email traffic
into and out of an organization.
So spam filtering, virus scanning, DLP,
which we've talked about before.
It can also do DMARC processing,
which we talked about just a moment ago.
So DMARC processing,
many gateways have this functionality built in.
So again, querying DNS for the sender's information.
So the DMARC policy tells the recipient what to do
if that email is in fact not legitimate
or if it fails DMARC verification.
Again, Accept, Quarantine, or Reject.