Hey everybody.
Welcome back to Pluralsight.
I'm your instructor, Christopher Rees,
and in this module we'll be talking about implementing
and maintaining identity and access management.
So let's go ahead and take a look at what we'll cover
in this module.
We'll be talking about provisioning
and deprovisioning user accounts, permission assignments
and implications, identity proofing, federation,
we'll also talk about single sign on or SSO,
interoperability, attestation, access controls,
also multi-factor authentication, password concepts,
and then privilege to access management tools.
So, sounds like a lot and it is, but let's go ahead
and pull back the curtain and see some
of the subtopics.
As usual, I'll go ahead and pause here for a moment
if you wanna read through what we'll be covering
as subtopics.
And then when you're ready, let's go ahead and get started.
Okay. So as usual, why is this important?
Well, identity and access management, or IAM,
is crucial in cybersecurity as it ensures
that only authorized individuals
or entities can access sensitive data and resources,
reducing the risk of data breaches,
and of course unauthorized access.
So we're talking about things like data protection.
So basically data, applications and systems,
we need to safeguard this sensitive information
from unauthorized access and breaches.
As far as compliance goes,
many industries have strict regulatory requirements,
as we've talked about before,
including things like GDPR and HIPAA.
So IAM helps organizations adhere to these regulations
by ensuring that access
to sensitive data is well documented, it's audited,
and also complies with legal standards.
When it comes to risk mitigation,
IAM helps reduce the attack surface,
which you've talked about,
by enforcing the principle of least privilege.
So this means users only have access
to what is necessary for their roles.
It can also provide enhanced user productivity.
IAM systems provide users with seamless
and secure access to the resources they need,
improving productivity and also the user experience.
Single sign-on,
which we'll talk about in just a few moments,
provides capabilities that reduce the need
for multiple logins,
and of course that makes it easier for users
to access the tools they require.
And then we've got identity lifecycle management.
So IAM solutions manage the entire lifecycle
of user identities from onboarding to offboarding,
and that basically ensures that when a user leaves
that their access is properly revoked.
It also helps with adaptability and scalability.
So as organizations grow, IAM systems can easily scale
to accommodate new users, devices
and of course applications.
So this adaptability is crucial in allowing a company
to scale, but also keeping them secure.
So IAM can also play a crucial role here
in threat detection and response.
Anomalies and user access patterns, as an example,
can be an early indicator of security incidents.
So this allows an organization
to take proactive measures very quickly.