Okay, two more single sign-on technologies
that I want you to be familiar with are OAuth
and OpenID Connect, or OIDC.
So OAuth is an open standard for authorization,
and that's the key takeaway.
It does authorization, not authentication.
Alright?
So authorization that allows third party applications
to access a user's resources.
So things like Google, Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Amazon,
all of the major social media providers have some type
of authentication mechanism,
and you may have used those in the past
and not even realized it.
So if you've logged into another website, like not Amazon,
or not Google, or not any of the ones I just mentioned,
but you can use your Google credentials
or your Facebook credentials to log into that website.
Well, on the back end of that,
it's leveraging more than likely OAuth and OpenID.
So it's a mechanism to use credentials from one
of these websites as a trusted third party.
So it provides authorization and access control,
but it's important, especially as a security professional,
to understand and make sure your users are aware
of what is actually being authorized.
Because when you click on certain things
and you use these tools to allow authorization,
there are certain things that may be passed along as well,
some credentials or some information from your profile
that you may or may not want to be passed on as well.
So just make sure you check into those things.
Along those same lines, we have OpenID.
So this is actually built on top of OAuth or OAuth 2.0.
So it's an identity layer that's built on top,
and it provides authentication
and user identity information.
So in essence, it provides standardized authentication,
which allows clients to verify a user's identity.
And again, it passes user identity information,
allowing applications to personalize user experiences.
So again, just be aware of what's being passed along.
It does make things more personal,
but it's good to understand what information is actually
being passed along so that you're in control of your data.
So just to summarize, OAuth and OIDC or OpenID Connect.
They serve different purposes.
One's authorization, one is authentication.
They often work together and they compliment each other
in modern authentication and authorization scenarios.
So when you log into a website using one
of these trusted third parties, like I said, Google,
Facebook, and so on,
you're using these two technologies in the backend.