Okay, let's talk about
some password concepts.
So everyone's favorite thing, password best practices.
So we really need to make sure
we enforce minimum password length,
and it used to be six to eight characters,
the common consensus now is 12 to 18 characters recommended.
And this is where password managers help, right?
We'll talk about password managers in a minute.
If you're not using them currently,
I highly recommend that you do
because they're super, super handy.
So enforcing password length,
and also make sure that we have complex passwords.
So not only 12 to 18 characters,
but make sure that they're upper and lowercase,
numbers and also special characters.
Next, make sure we limit password reuse.
So don't use passwords across multiple accounts,
that's a huge no-no.
We wanna limit the impact of a password breach.
If you use the same exact password
on every single website and every single resource,
if that password ever gets compromised,
someone would then have access to everything that you do.
So we don't want that,
we wanna make sure we have unique passwords for each site,
and again, that's where password managers come into play.
And then password expiration.
So we wanna make sure that
we force periodic password changes,
we wanna reduce the risk of unauthorized access
and making people change
their password every so often helps with that.
And then, along with that, password age.
So don't reuse old passwords
to reduce the risk of compromise.
And I mentioned password managers,
which is a good segue to our next one.
Again, password managers very highly recommended.
It increases password security
by generating strong, unique passwords for each website.
So the password managers can automatically generate
strong passwords for you,
so you don't have to try to remember anything.
So an interesting stat
from this year's Verizon breach report,
over 85% of data breaches involved weak or stolen passwords.
So we're talking thousands of breaches,
hundreds of millions of dollars or more in damages,
85% of which emanated from weak or stolen passwords.
So by using a password manager,
you create a very strong master password
that's used to access the password manager itself,
and then it stores all of your passwords,
your credentials and so forth.
So it can store two-factor authentication codes as well
so you don't necessarily need Google Authenticate or Authy
or some other type of token generator,
it can be built right into your password manager,
which again incorporates into modern web browsers,
your mobile devices and so forth.
So it keeps everything very secure
and it makes logging in
and managing all these different passwords very, very easy.
So if you wanna actually take a peek at that report,
I have a link here,
Verizon puts out a yearly breach investigation report
that I highly recommend you take a peek through.
It has some very interesting stats
about the industry and just security at large.