Okay, next, let's talk about API Gateways.
So an API Gateway can perform such things as authentication
and authorization, rate limiting, load balancing,
virus scanning, orchestration data conversion, and more.
So in this example, we have our backend services,
applications data, microservices, messaging and so forth.
And then we have our customers who want to use
or consume those backend services.
In order for us to control security, to rate limit,
to make sure things don't get overloaded,
which as mentioned, has advanced security features.
It can do mediation, custom API, load balancing,
caching, request shaping,
putting things in different format.
And then also transport security.
We can utilize SSL
and TLS, so we make sure those API calls are encrypted.
So the services and the API calls themselves pass
through the gateway, so the calls from customers are secure.
And we have some of those additional features built in,
which I'll talk more about here.
So some of the security benefits,
we have authentication and access control.
So API Gateways centralized authentication
and access control mechanisms.
They can integrate with identity providers.
We talked about OAuth and Open ID Connect as an example.
And they can enforce authentication standards,
ensuring only authenticated users
or systems can access APIs.
We can also do rate limiting
and DDoS protection.
By implementing these things along with traffic management.
API Gateways can protect against DDoS attacks
and excessive traffic.
Again, reducing the risk of service disruptions.
We also have encryption and data protection.
API Gateways can often support, as I mentioned, SSL
and TLS for data in transit,
basically encrypts that communication.
This ensures that the data exchange between clients
and services is encrypted,
reducing the risk of eavesdropping
or data interception.
We can also do logging and monitoring, so gateways can log
and monitoring, coming requests
and responses, providing visibility into API usage
and also potential security threats.
So this, as you can imagine, helps in identifying
and responding to security incidents more effectively.
We can also implement security policies, so they allow
for the implementation of these policies,
such as content validation, input validation,
and of course data filtering.
So this can reduce the risk
of injection attacks like SQL injection
or cross site scripting.
We can also add security headers to responses
to mitigate common web security vulnerabilities,
such as cross origin resource sharing,
and also content security policies.
And then also centralized security updates.
So when security vulnerabilities are discovered,
or security policies need to be updated,
API gateways provide a central point
for implementing these changes, reducing the complexity
of managing security across multiple microservices.