Let's talk about some of the actual benefits
of automation and orchestration.
So efficiency and time saving are fundamental
benefits of automation, obviously,
automated processes reduce manual tasks,
enabling IT professionals
and security professionals specifically
to focus on more strategic and complex activities.
So this leads to increased productivity,
faster delivery of services and solutions,
and ultimately to a more secure environment.
Enforcing baselines so automation allows
for the consistent enforcement
of security and configuration baselines
across IT environments.
So that ensures that all systems adhere
to predefined standards, reducing the risk
of misconfigurations and vulnerabilities.
So this has a compounding
beneficial effect on everything else
when you think about it.
Standard infrastructure configurations.
I can't tell you how crucial this one is.
When you have standardization across your environment,
and if server A, B, or Z goes south,
or application goes south, you basically know how to fix it
because you've seen that problem before.
Every server's built exactly the same way.
They have the same code base,
the same patches, and so forth.
If you treat everything as a snowflake
and every single system is different,
it makes troubleshooting a nightmare.
So standardization and automation ensures
that infrastructure components are consistently configured
according to predefined standards.
So this standardization reduces variations, as I mentioned,
and it basically simplifies the maintenance
and troubleshooting and again,
makes things much, much more secure.
It also allows scaling in a secure manner.
So automation facilitates the rapid scaling of resources
and services while maintaining security measures.
So it ensures that security policies are consistently
applied as systems grow, preventing security gaps.
It also helps with employee retention,
so providing IT professionals, security folks,
and so forth with automation tools
can improve job satisfaction and retention.
It's not something that necessarily comes to top
of mind when we're talking about some
of the benefits, but it is a real thing.
So automation reduces the burden of repetitive
and mundane tasks,
and it allows staff to focus on more engaging,
more valuable work, and basically makes them
happy to get outta bed in the morning.
Right, that's important.
All of these things lead up to a reduction in reaction time.
So automation enhances your ability to respond
to security incidents and events promptly.
Automated alerts and responses obviously can mitigate
threats faster than manual intervention,
again, reducing potential damage.
And when it's all said and done, it really boils down
to being a workforce multiplier.
To kind of coin a military term.
So automation serves as a force multiplier
by enabling IT teams to achieve more with less,
which is what everyone loves to hear.
Seems to be a recurring theme year after year,
but it's the reality we live in.
We're always tasked with doing more with less.
So by implementing automation, by implementing
all of these processes, it allows us to do that
so we can achieve more with existing resources or less.
It allows even a small team to manage a large
and complex IT environment efficiently and effectively.