Hey everybody.
Welcome back to Pluralsight.
I'm your instructor, Christopher Rees
and in this module,
we'll be talking about incident response activities.
So let's take a look at what we'll cover in this module.
We'll be talking about the overall process
of incident response, training,
we'll talk about the various types of testing,
we'll talk about root cause analysis, threat hunting,
and then digital forensics.
So let's go ahead and pull back the curtain a bit
and look at the subtopics.
So if you look at what we have here,
it looks like it might be a relatively light module,
but looks can be deceiving.
A lot of critical information in here
so I highly recommend
that you take your time and work through it.
Make sure you understand the information in the module.
So go ahead and pause here for just a second
if you wanna look at the subtopics
and then when you're ready, let's go ahead and get started.
Okay, so first off, why should you care?
Well, cyber attacks are becoming more and more frequent
and more and more costly.
Each and every year, the attacks seem to be getting bigger.
As far as ransomware goes,
the actual ransoms are getting bigger and bigger.
So the problem is just increasing.
It's not getting smaller.
So basically, companies large
and small are constant targets.
Not just high-value targets,
not just gigantic companies,
but smaller victims can play a part
in larger attacks as well.
We talked about supply chain attacks,
downstream attacks, watering hole attacks.
So smaller companies can still play a part.
It does not make them immune.
Loss of data or intellectual property, competitive advantage
and basically overall consumer confidence.
You can also risk legal action
if negligent or not properly protected.
So being trained in how to detect, defend,
and investigate bad actor activity is really a crucial part
of a strong cybersecurity posture.
So let's go ahead and take a look at the overall process
and the phases of an incident response.
We'll go through these in a little more detail,
but we basically have preparation, detection, containment,
then eradication, then recovery,
and then document lessons learned.
So it's a continuous cycle that's refined over time.
Lessons learned help to identify gaps
and then increase preparedness for the next time.
And also over time, additional resources are brought online.
We figure out what's working, what's not working,
where we need to augment
or strengthen our posture in one area,
perhaps, maybe not so much in another.
So those additional resources are brought online
and added into the response team's arsenal.