So during the preparation phase,
we should be identifying team members
and basically assembling an incident response team,
both primary and backups if appropriate,
and getting very clear on what skills
and what tools are needed.
And also, during that phase,
organizations should establish clear
and well-documented incident response policies
and procedures, so these documents outline the roles
and responsibilities of incident response team members,
define the incident classification and severity levels,
and also provide guidelines for reporting
and handling of incidents.
Once the team is assembled,
we need to make sure we define roles and responsibilities
so that each team member is aware of their role,
who their backups will be, and also ensure they have access
to the proper tools and resources.
And then once we have those things done,
we need to make sure that we define
and develop a defense-in-depth strategy,
so the name of the game here is to strengthen defenses
and also help mitigate the impact of breaches or incidents.
Next, when it comes to detection and analysis,
so properly trained teams can assist and expedite all phases
of an incident response, kind of goes without saying,
but quick assessment can determine the level of impact
and also help direct containment and mitigation efforts,
so detection and analysis is really crucial
to the overall process.
The quicker we can do this, the quicker that we can identify
where to deploy resources, the quicker we can contain,
mitigate, and ultimately reduce the impact
of the blast radius of a breach,
and that's really what we're trying to do.
We're trying to lessen the impact,
whether that be financially, impact to customers,
impact to reputation, all that good stuff,
so speed is of the essence here.
So as I mentioned, the analysis of event and log files
from IDS, or intrusion detection systems,
firewalls, routers, and switches,
along with directory servers and other network systems,
proper logging is essential, and then having tools in place
that can aggregate those different log files
to give us a big picture, or a holistic picture,
of the environment, helps us to understand
and play back what happened and drill down to root cause.
So really, what we're after here
is to determine the true intent of the attack.
Was it a clear target, or was it someone just probing?
Was the business the actual target,
or perhaps a side-door attack against another company?
And again, was this a true attack,
or just initial network or resource mapping?
All of these obviously require our attention,
it's just that not all of them
are at the same priority level, so we need to make sure
that we clearly identify what's happening
so we can identify what teams are necessary
and also allocate resources, because remember,
just like on a battlefield,
you only have so much resources you can deploy,
and if you put everything on one side of the fence
or one area to defend, that leaves other areas open.
and the more skilled attackers know this,
so sometimes, they'll try to put up false flags,
have you look at one area and focus attention over here,
while they try to do something way over there,
so just keep that in mind.
So once we've done our detection and analysis,
next, we wanna make sure we stop the spread, containment,
isolating the affected systems to prevent further damage
or unauthorized access.
And then next, eradication,
which is the process of eliminating the root cause
to prevent it from happening again. because as we know,
it doesn't do us much good to really shut the door,
turn the locks, to lock the window,
and then leave the back door wide open.
So as we eradicate and we remove whatever it is
from our system, the backdoors,
or the entry point that the attacker used
to gain access into our network,
we need to make sure that we go through and eradicate that,
close those gaps, so that once we're back up and running,
we've restored from backup, we think everything is good,
we don't have the same problem reappear the next week
or the next month, especially when it comes to ransomware.
There have been cases where companies
have actually paid the ransom,
sometimes in excess of a million dollars,
but they never actually fixed the vulnerability
and patched the issue, so a week or two later,
the attackers came back,
hit the same company again with ransomware,
and again, demanded another ransom.
So eradication is definitely important,
but making sure the holes are closed
are equally as important, if not more important.
And then we have, of course, recovery,
so focusing on restoring the affected systems
to normal operation while ensuring they're secure.
We need to make sure that we're restoring to clean systems
and that any vulnerabilities have been fixed.
And a few key areas when it comes
to eradication and recovery,
we have disabling affected accounts.
So we need to make sure that we identify
and disable compromised user or service accounts
to mitigate further spread or impact from malware,
ransomware, bad actors, and so forth.
Shutting down ports and protocols is another good idea,
isolating affected systems or networks,
again, to contain the spread to other areas
while also trying to limit the impact to the business,
and then recovering from backups,
so as I mentioned, recovering to a clean system.
So it's always a great idea to verify
that the backups are actually good.
Nothing more of a lonely feeling
than restoring from a backup, and there's nothing there,
so verifying those ahead of time, obviously critical,
but recovering to a clean system.
We wanna make sure that the backup itself is clean,
but then also that the system we're recovering to
is also clean.
Basically, building from scratch
and restoring the data is optimal,
but if we need to recover to an existing system or systems,
we need to make sure they are clean and free from infection,
so we need to make sure that any vulnerabilities
have been patched and verify any gaps have been closed,
and then coordinating with other sites and locations.
So communication with these other sites,
assuming we have other sites,
because they may need to take proactive measures as well
to make sure things don't spread to their area,
or we may need to give them a heads up
and prepare for a failover.
So if our systems are able to fail over
to that remote location,
we obviously need to make sure they're aware of it.
We need to make sure that that system is free
and clean from infection, and make sure that the same holes
that allowed access to our systems locally
do not exist on that remote location.