So next up is a subject
near and dear to my heart, and that is training.
So training, really when we're talking about security,
security is everyone's job.
So training should be continuous.
It needs to utilize various methods,
and that's tabletop sessions,
we'll talk about that in just a moment.
It needs to be scenario-based.
It could be live training, videos, et cetera, et cetera.
Everyone learns a little bit differently,
so the more ways we can get training in
and the more ways we can engage with the end user,
the better for everybody.
So really at the end of the day, we need to ensure
that people have the proper training
with the tools necessary to do their jobs.
And here we're specifically talking about incident response,
technical skills, threat intelligence,
forensics, and so forth.
So training should really run the gamut
so that way when an incident does occur
we have the right people for the job and the right tools
to allow them to get done what they need to in short order.
So now that we have our training properly defined,
and we're making sure that we're investing properly
in the tools, the training, the resources,
making sure people are up to speed
and up with the latest technologies
and also the latest threats and vulnerabilities,
then we need to worry about testing.
So as far as testing goes, again, we need to define
our goals and expected outcomes.
So periodically test disaster recovery plans.
Additionally, test business continuity
and also cybersecurity plans
to verify that the plans are valid,
they cover the required elements,
and that they're actually actionable.
That's one of the biggest pieces to the puzzle.
We don't wanna put plans together
just to have a plan, right?
So this is not a checkbox activity.
We wanna make sure that the plans we put in place
are actually workable and will get us back up and running
as quickly as possible.
From there, we need buy-in from senior management.
So we must have executive approval,
and this must be disseminated organization-wide if possible.
It's very hard to get these things put into place
if we're doing a bottom up, because every organization,
every line of business, every group, tower,
whatever it's called in your organization,
everybody has competing priorities, what's important.
So what's important to one group
is not necessarily important to the other.
So executive buy-in and a top-down approach
is gonna make this the most successful.
Once our testing is done, then we need
to do post-testing review.
So identify what's changed, if anything,
and then compare our goals with expected outcomes
and then actual results.
And just so we're clear from a definitions perspective,
test versus exercise.
A test, which we're all used to, it's pass or fail.
It either meets the objectives or it doesn't.
Versus an exercise, which can be harder to measure.
Some elements may be successful where others may not.
But the exercise itself is a learning experience.
So as you figure out what doesn't work,
you refine that over time.
And each iteration and each iteration, hopefully,
it gets better and better
to the point where we now have a flawless
or a smooth operation
that we can put into play when disaster strikes.
Something very important, however,
is that testing needs to be realistic.
Simply reporting back successful test results
are meaningless if the tests are not realistic.
Again, this is not a checkbox activity.
We need to make sure that we're actually doing things
that are actionable, and that we're able to take away
and refine and get better over time.
So in other words, test the plan,
don't plan the test, right?
Crises don't typically knock on your door
three or four days ahead of time and say,
"Hey, Mr. Security Professional, today's Tuesday.
On Friday, we're gonna have a crisis
and we're gonna breach your network.
So just please get ready, here we come."
That doesn't happen, right?
So we need to make sure
that we're not testing in that fashion either.
We need to make it as realistic as possible.
So there are a few ways we can do these testing,
one of which is called a tabletop exercise.
So this is a structured and a collaborative
discussion-based scenario
that simulates a cybersecurity incident or a crisis.
So this really should involve key stakeholders,
incident response, IT, executives, management,
and other relevant departments.
So everyone is in a room together
and you go through these tabletop exercises,
understanding the scenario,
understanding what's gonna take place.
Everyone kind of chimes in
and you collectively work your way through
a specific scenario.
So the steps involved.
We have a scenario development,
and the exercise begins with the creation of a realistic
and a relevant cybersecurity scenario.
The scenarios can range from data breaches
to ransomware attacks to insider threats
or perhaps DDoS attacks.
And the scenarios should challenge participants
and align with the organization's risk profile
and overall objectives.
In other words, keep the discussions
and the outcomes realistic
and in line with what the company would accept and expect.
Then we have preparation.
So participants are informed about the exercise in advance
and provided with relevant background information,
including the scenario, incident details and objectives.
And they may also receive
specific roles and responsibilities
and are expected to function as a team.
We then have facilitator and observer roles.
So a facilitator guides the exercise, right?
They're kind of running the show.
They present scenario details
and pose challenges to participants.
Observers, which are often subject matter experts or SMEs
or experienced incident responders
monitor and assess participants' actions and decisions.
From there, we have a scenario discussion.
So participants gather in the meeting room
or virtually over Zoom or Microsoft Teams
or whatever you use to collaborate
and discuss the scenario and its potential impact
on the organization.
They discuss how they would respond,
how they'd make decisions, communicate internally,
externally, and so forth.
From there, we have decision making and actions.
So the participants make decisions
and they take actions as they would during a real incident.
So this may involve notifying relevant teams,
analyzing evidence, steps required to contain an incident,
and then deciding on communication strategies.
From there, discussion and evaluation.
So throughout the exercise,
the facilitator introduces new developments or challenges
based upon participants' decisions.
So everyone discusses their actions,
the rationale behind their actions,
and the potential consequences of their choices.
From there, an after action review.
So after completing the exercise, participants and observers
conduct a very detailed review of the scenario
and the responses.
They identify strengths and areas for improvement
in incident response procedures, communication,
and of course decision making.
In the overall benefits to the organization,
we have proper risk assessment.
Team collaboration, right, we're all working together.
Decision validation, because now we're putting decisions
out in front of everyone
and we can kind of collectively decide,
is this the best way to go or not?
What are the potential impacts?
What are the potential risks to the environment?
And then also we're making sure
that we're following policy and procedure.
And then if there's an area for improvement,
of course we can adjust as necessary.
It's obviously a learning opportunity,
we're all getting a chance to learn from one another.
And the nice part is the training becomes scalable.
We can start off with a small group and expand as necessary,
bringing in additional teams,
management, executives, what have you,
and scale this thing out as large as we need it to be.
And it also helps with risk mitigation
and of course regulatory compliance.
Also, just to clarify
between a tabletop exercise and a simulation,
there's some things around format,
realism, goals, and interaction.
So in a tabletop exercise, the format is discussion-based,
whereas a simulation is hands-on and real time.
As far as realism goes,
in a tabletop exercise we aim for realism,
we try to make this scenario as real as possible,
but we lack hands-on action.
In a simulation, this really mimics a real incident
and real response activities as closely as possible.
The goals are similar.
We wanna make sure we test and evaluate
incident response plans, policies and procedures.
Also decision making and communication, right?
That's for a tabletop exercise.
In a simulation, we're doing those same things
but we wanna provide practical, real-time experience
of incident response
and also assess the execution of those response actions.
And then from an interaction perspective,
tabletop exercises verbal communication, discussion,
and decision making without taking actual action.
So the pressure's really not on,
but it's a good way to walk through the exercise.
In a simulation,
participants actively take concrete actions, make decisions,
and interact with simulated systems and data.