So let's take a look
at the intelligence lifecycle
and understand there's a number
of pieces to the puzzle here.
So the intelligence lifecycle is a structured process used
by intelligence agencies and organizations to collect,
analyze, and disseminate information,
obviously to aid in decision making.
So when applied to threat hunting,
decision making needs to lead
to immediate action being taken to contain
and also to remediate those threats.
So let's walk through each piece
of the intelligence lifecycle.
So we have direction,
sometimes referred to as planning and direction.
So this is the initial phase where objectives
and goals of the intelligence effort are defined.
This includes identifying the specific information needs,
setting priorities, and determining the best methods
to gather the needed data.
Then we have collection.
In this phase,
information is gathered from a variety of sources.
We talked about those just a moment ago.
This can involve human intelligence, signals intelligence,
open source intelligence, and other methods.
So in the context of cybersecurity,
this might involve gathering data on potential threats,
vulnerabilities, and also attack patterns.
Next, we have processing.
So the collecting information is then processed
and converted into a format that can be analyzed.
So this might involve translation or decryption
or organizing data into databases.
So in our world, this could include parsing logs,
organizing data from security tools
or decrypting intercepted communications.
From there, we have analysis.
So during analysis, the processed information is evaluated
and interpreted to produce actionable intelligence.
So that's really what we're after
is something we can act upon.
Analysts look for patterns, anomalies, and insights.
They attempt to put pieces of information into context,
assess their reliability, and then draw conclusions.
So again, in our world, this involves analyzing data
to identify potential threats, vulnerabilities,
and the motives along with the capabilities of attackers,
and then we have dissemination.
So that analyzed intelligence is then disseminated
to the relevant decision makers in an appropriate format.
So the way intelligence is reported can vary
depending upon the audience and their needs, of course.
In a typical cybersecurity setting,
this might involve preparing reports for different levels
of management or for operational teams,
and then kind of surrounding all of this
is we have feedback and evaluation.
So this isn't often overlooked,
but it's a crucial phase where effectiveness
of the intelligence process is then evaluated.
So feedback from the users of intelligence is gathered,
and the entire process is reviewed
for any necessary adjustments, right?
We have a constant feedback loop.
So this helps to refine the future intelligence efforts
and ensure that the intelligence lifecycle remains aligned
with the changing needs and objectives of the business.
So to look at this a different way,
we have objectives and key questions.
So based upon what our objectives are
and what we're trying to accomplish,
we're going to interface with different data sources, right?
We're gonna do internal sources.
It can be technical sources, and then human sources.
We talked about that previously.
All of these things feed into threat intelligence
and security tools, which are monitored by analysts,
and the analysts then can turn around
and feed that information or disseminate that information
to a number of end users, if you will.
So that could be incident response teams.
That could be security operations teams
or a vulnerability management team,
or it could go over onto the risk and fraud side, right,
risk analysis and fraud management,
and then up to security leadership.
So the information gathered through that process,
as you can see, has a lot of disparate end users.
So the information needs to be disseminated
in a form and fashion specific to that audience,
but again, this is a super important part of the puzzle.
Threat intelligence analysis, if done properly,
can feed a lot of the decisions
and the actions that are taken
by the various teams on the right of this graphic.