Hey, everybody.
Welcome back to Pluralsight.
I am your instructor, Christopher Rees,
and welcome to our Domain Summary for Course #4.
Congrats for making it this far.
We are almost to the finish line,
so let's go ahead and take a look at what we'll cover.
And here, we see Alice, actually, not Alice,
and as usual, she's super excited
to talk about the Domain Summary.
So this is CompTIA Security+ SYO-701,
which is Security Operations for CompTIA Security+.
This is the biggest out of the five domains,
so congrats for making it through, as I said,
the fourth course out of five Domains covered by the exam.
So we've gone through General Security Concepts,
Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations,
and then Security Architecture,
which brought us here to Security Operations.
The last course
is Security Program Management and Oversight,
so stick around for that one.
But some key concepts to remember,
so we talked about hardening targets,
whether it's mobile, networking devices, servers,
storage, and cloud resources,
so make sure you understand how to harden those things
and make sure they're as difficult to get into
as possible for the adversaries.
We talked about the different types of analysis,
ranging from static analysis, dynamic analysis,
of course, fuzzing, linting,
code smells, and so forth.
So understand how they factor into security operations
along with the CI/CD pipeline.
We talked about vulnerability response and remediation.
We covered CVE and CVSS along with exposure factor.
And then talked about alerting and monitoring tools,
such as SCAP, SIEM systems,
DLP, SNMP, NetFlow, and AV scanners.
So make sure you're familiar
with all those terms and what they are.
If they don't ring a bell,
you might wanna go back and review the content.
And then we talked about authentication and authorization,
things like SSO, SAML, Oauth, and access controls,
along with some email security concepts,
like DMARC, DKIM, SPIF or SPIF.
Lastly, we talked about incident response
from tabletops to simulations and then digital forensics.
So a lot of critical information covered in this course.
When it comes to exam success essentials,
some things to keep in mind.
As I mentioned before, review the material more than once.
Allow time for the information to sink in
and revisit several times if necessary,
and use test questions
and exam simulations to test your knowledge and retention.
As I've mentioned before, when I learn something new,
sometimes I have to get up, walk away,
maybe even wait a few days,
do something else completely different,
let the information kind of soak in
in the background, if you will,
and then when I come back to it
and review it again, it makes much more sense.
I don't know exactly why that happens,
but that's just the way it seems to work for me,
and it very well may work for you as well.
Also, make sure to check out the Pluralsight Labs.
There are absolutely great content there.
And again, additional information
will help solidify the content
and also add additional context,
and then some recommended additional content,
I always put a plugin for myself, of course,
Security Architecture and Design: The Big Picture.
I would also check out Malware Analysis: The Big Picture,
and then potentially Introduction to Threat Intelligence,
all of which can add some additional information
and context to what we're studying here.
Now, something new I thought I'd include here.
I'd love to have your feedback to see if it's a value,
and that is a glossary of key terms.
So I won't read through all of these, obviously,
but I'll include them in the slide deck,
and you can download them and review at your leisure.
But I have a couple pages of key terms
that we've covered in this course.
So go ahead and zip through those when you get a chance
and make sure you're familiar with all of those things.
And then lastly, as I mentioned, the Pluralsight Labs,
I can't stress these enough.
There's a number of great instructors
that put a lot of time and effort into these things,
so I would definitely make sure you check them out.
There's dozens and dozens of different labs
for different concepts
and different tools and technologies,
even ones that aren't necessarily covered
in the course in depth,
along the lines of wire sniffing,
penetration testing, and so forth.
Even though those things aren't covered in the course,
I definitely recommend you check them out
as it gives you additional context
and additional background
so a lot of these concepts start to all tie together.
So again, congrats for getting this far.
Next up is Course #5,
Security Program Management and Oversight.
And as I mentioned, the race is almost over.
We have one course left,
and the finish line is in sight.
So great job, keep it up,
and I'll see you in the next course.