So first off,
we have an acceptable use policy.
So what we're really doing here is defining
acceptable behaviors and practices related to the use
of an organization's computer systems, networks and data.
So, these things revolve around security,
legal and compliance, resource optimization,
and, of course, liability mitigations.
And what I mean by that is basically clarifying
the responsibilities and liabilities of users,
which should make very clear to the user
that improper use can lead to disciplinary actions,
including termination of employment
or even legal consequences.
And then we have information security policies,
so a framework for safeguarding
an organization's sensitive information and assets.
So, things like risk management,
which helps identify and mitigate security risks
by specifying specific security controls, procedures,
and, of course, best practices.
Compliance, which revolves around security policies,
which ensures that the organization complies
with relevant laws, regulations and industry standards
related to data protection and, of course, security.
Protection of assets, which define guidelines
and measures for protecting valuable assets such as data,
hardware and software from unauthorized access,
disclosure or damage.
Employee guidelines provide employees
with clear instructions on how to handle
sensitive information, use company resources securely
and report on security incidents.
And then incident response, which is basically
policies that outline procedures
for responding to security incidents, breaches,
and things along those lines.
When it comes to the various types of plans,
they'll typically fall into four categories.
So, we have incident management.
We have business continuity,
disaster recovery, and then business resumption.
So, these plans could be separate and distinct documents,
or they could be one larger document.
Again, this will vary from organization to organization.
So, to dig in a bit deeper, disaster recovery plans,
these are very similar in scope
to business continuity plans,
but they focus specifically on information technology.
So tasks, action lists, order of recovery
for different systems, databases, servers, and so forth.
Also, emergency contact information for key personnel
and interested parties.
Documentation, references to incident management
or command center location,
things along those lines,
along with activities associated with people,
process and technology.
Again, we're specifically focusing on the technology part
of our overall business resumption plan.
Next, we have business continuity plans.
So, these plans deal with the resumption
and recovery of business operations
once the initial disruption is contained.
So, it should have things like how to begin recovery,
location of key personnel and resources.
Again, this is beyond the scope of just IT.
Now, we're talking about business in general,
disaster recovery and alternate work locations,
staging areas, et cetera,
also needed resources.
And then we have business resumption plans.
So, it can be the same or part of
a business continuity plan, but it could also be separate.
Again, it's gonna vary from organization to organization.
This defines who owns the resumption process.
So, keep in mind this may be different
than personnel responsible for incident management
or for disaster recovery, and it centers around the process
for determining replacement of staff, buildings,
infrastructure, various services.
Again, this will all depend upon the nature
of the incident and the amount of damage.
So, all of these plans we've just talked about,
keep in mind, they need to be updated periodically.
They can't be a one and done, right?
So as things change, we need to make sure
our plans are updated, as well
so they reflect locations, personnel,
chain of command, and so forth.
And then we have an incident management plan.
So, this deals with the initial response to an incident.
Again, tasks, actions and priorities,
emergency contact details of key personnel
and interested parties,
activities required as it relates to people,
process and technology,
contact guidelines, who to reach out to,
whether it's internal, could be media,
could be emergency responders,
law enforcement, local, state, federal,
also documentation, things like maps, charts,
perhaps third party response details,
and also site access info.
And then it's also good to have insurance contact
and claim procedures.
Now, you might ask yourself, what do all these things
have to do with me or my job or my position?
Well, why you may not interact
with all these plans on a day-to-day basis,
and quite frankly, hopefully you never do,
but don't assume that in the middle of a crisis,
you're going to have all this information
right at your fingertips.
Obviously, scenes will be chaotic. Stress levels are high.
Information may not be readily forthcoming.
And even the people who may know all these things
may no longer be with the company
or they could have been involved in the incident
and can't respond.
So all of these things should be documented, updated,
and then routinely audited for accuracy
and making sure they're up to date.