When it comes to onboarding and offboarding.
So processes should be defined
for both on onboard and of course offboarding.
And that's really saying that users
should have a clear understanding of what's acceptable,
what's allowed, and of course what's expected.
Companies should also ensure they take possessions
of all company assets when an employee leaves,
and this includes hardware, software, and of course data.
Now, some external considerations
that we need to be aware of.
And again, this is a bit of an eye chart.
I won't read through everything,
so I'll go ahead and pause here for a second.
But just understand there are six categories here,
regulatory, legal, industry,
local or regional, national, and of course global.
You need to understand these things exist,
the definition of what they are,
which could range from warnings for non-compliance
up to legal or financial consequences.
And be aware of the policies
and the guidelines that exist
to make sure we're following best practices
and staying in compliance.
As you'll learn as we go
through the various modules within this domain,
compliance is a very big thing
that should not be overlooked.
Okay, so let's talk about monitoring for a moment
and some use cases for monitoring.
Number one, it can actually boost productivity.
So if we track time spent on social media,
web surfing, or non-related activities,
on a personal level, if you track these things,
you'll probably be pretty surprised to know
how much time you actually spend
on these activities throughout the day.
And if you're actually doing it during the workday,
that's even a bigger problem.
So if the company is able to track and monitor,
they may not necessarily care up to a point,
but if you're spending seven hours
out of an eight-hour day on social media or web surfing,
you may end up getting a knock on your door
or someone responding to your desk and saying,
"All right, we need to have a bit of a talk."
It can also deter or detect criminal activity,
so it can detect intrusions or breaches, of course,
criminal activities such as threats or harassment,
illegal behaviors, and so forth.
And also, if employees know they're being monitored
or at least have the potential to be monitored,
that in and of itself sometimes can deter these activities.
Tracking employee locations.
Again, not everyone's favorite topic,
but in certain scenarios it makes sense.
So we need to ensure remote workers
are adhering to company policies,
working at prescribed locations, traveling safely,
not speeding or driving erratically, right?
Sometimes drivers will have their cars
monitored with GPS and so forth,
and if they go over a certain speed,
it may send off an alert, things along those lines.
And then protecting our IP or intellectual property.
So this way we ensure a proprietary company, employee,
or customer data is secure
and not being removed from the company.
So really at the end of the day,
we're trying to balance what's reasonable.
So first step is to make sure
we have a defined privacy and acceptable use policy,
so that way everything is very clearly defined,
there's no ambiguity or nuance,
and employee knows exactly what's expected and what's not,
what's acceptable and what's not.
And if there are questions,
they can of course refer back to that acceptable use policy.
This should also refer to BYOD and remote employees
so they understand what they can and can't do,
what information or data on that device
is company property or could be monitored,
and what isn't.
And then what is the overall
employee expectation of privacy?
If they're using company equipment on company time,
then there should be really no expectation of privacy
as far as what can be monitored.
But again, every industry is slightly different.
Those policies should be clearly defined,
and a user should be reminded
every time they log into a device that,
hey, this activity could be monitored,
so that they're aware and there's no surprises.