Okay, so let's take a look
at a couple different types of analysis.
So first off, we have qualitative analysis.
So with qualitative analysis, it's an assessment
that assigns a numerical value to the probability of a risk
and the impact it can have on the system or network.
So in a qualitative analysis,
no monetary value is assigned to assets
or to possible losses.
So that's a distinction between qualitative
and quantitative.
So as an example, we're assessing the risk of,
say, not installing antivirus on end user systems.
Alright, so we'll assign a range,
a numerical range from one to 100.
In this example, it could be one to 10,
it could be one to 1,000, it's your choice.
But here we'll say one to 100.
And again, this is a bit of a best guess,
but the probability of risk of infection
is probably 99 at some point.
The amount of impact is 80.
And again, we'll say that it would affect maybe 80%
of our systems, as an example.
So we would multiply 99 times 80, giving us 7,920
out of a possible 10,000.
So that could be looked at as a high risk.
So if we have five or six different things
that we're evaluating,
again, they would stack rank
and see what's most important.
So this is a high risk item and all the rest are below this.
This is where we would focus our resources.
So as an example, here we have a qualitative analysis
of five or six different risks.
So a data breach, employee turnover,
supplier disruption, so on and so forth.
So we have the likelihood and then we have the impact.
So on the first one, R1, we see a data breach.
That's got a likelihood of high and an impact of high.
So the priority, obviously, would be high.
Conversely, if we look down at R6,
the risk description is a hurricane.
The likelihood is low.
The impact in this case would be medium,
since we're inland, we're not really along on the coast,
but we could still be impacted to some degree.
But if you multiply low times medium,
that gives you a low in the grand scheme of things.
Now again, these would have a numerical value
assigned to them.
Behind the scenes, we would assign these numerical values
as I showed previously,
and that would give us a low, medium, high.
So you can see from the chart, basically,
that tackling things in order of priority
R1, R4, and R5 would all be high on the priority list,
so our resources should be applied to those things first,
funding, headcount, perhaps platform or tooling.
Those things should be addressed as a priority
and then move down the list from there.
Next we have quantitative analysis.
So with quantitative analysis,
assessment is assigned an exact monetary value to assets.
So what we're doing is attempting
to give expected yearly loss in dollars
for any specific risk.
So this enables prioritization based on financial losses
likely to be incurred versus the cost of protecting.
So as an example, here we have a number of servers
where we want to evaluate the cost of antivirus software
to protect 10 servers,
and of course, factor in labor and maintenance.
So we have 10 servers that we need to protect,
and they do very minimal work.
They're not necessarily what you would call
critical business assets.
But in evaluating this,
each server costs roughly $6,500 to replace,
and as I mentioned, they do minimal work.
If we were to buy licensing for those servers,
plus maintenance and everything else,
let's just say in this example, it would cost us $450,000,
and we wanna protect those 10 servers.
Well, if all those servers were compromised
and needed to be replaced,
the total damages are estimated to be $95,000.
So we'd have 10 servers times $6,500,
plus roughly $3,000 in maintenance and so forth, labor.
So $9,500 per server times 10 gives us a rough impact
to replace and so forth of $95k.
Well, as you can see, it would be a bad financial decision
to spend $450,000 to protect $95,000
basically in potential damages.
Now, this is just an example.
Obviously we should put AV software on all of our things
to help keep the environment secure.
I'm just using this as an example
with something you might be familiar with,
so you can understand how much something actually costs
versus how much it would cost us to protect that thing.
And sometimes it makes sense, sometimes it doesn't.