Okay, next,
let's talk about hardware vulnerabilities
and a few things to be aware of here.
So we have firmware.
Firmware is code or software
that runs hardware on our system.
Typically chip sets
and things that are kind of under the hood.
So firmware is definitely an attack surface for hackers.
And older platforms often will have bugs
and vulnerabilities that don't have patches
or updates readily available.
In other words, they're so old,
they're not patching it anymore.
So firmware can often be overlooked.
And it's also an easy attack vector.
So again, software, operating systems,
these are always kind of top of mind to people, right?
We need to patch our applications,
we need to update our agents,
we need to update our operating systems.
But firmware, unfortunately,
sometimes gets forgotten about or left by the wayside,
and those things do not get updated as often as they should,
or at least potentially not as often as they should.
And again, every time we neglect things
or forget to update things,
we're introducing risk into the environment.
When we talk about end-of-life equipment,
as infrastructure ages, the rate of failures increase
and the availability of parts decreases.
Again, introducing risk into the environment.
That goes hand in hand with firmware as well,
because as equipment goes end-of-life,
we have the potential to stop paying attention to it,
especially firmware updates and so forth.
So the longer that lives in our environment
and the longer it's not patched or updated,
the more potential for vulnerabilities to exist.
And then when we're talking about legacy applications
or legacy platforms, infrastructure, hardware and so forth.
Older platforms may have fewer people
who are subject matter experts,
making administrating those platforms
and also maintaining more of a challenge.
So a legacy can also mean something that's being replaced,
not necessarily old.
So we could have bought a system or a piece of hardware
and after a year or two,
decide to go in a different direction.
So that is now quote, unquote "legacy,"
even though it's not necessarily that old
but we're gonna be replacing it.
So as soon as something gets the moniker
of "legacy" attached to it, sometimes we forget to update it
or we think, "Oh, we don't need to update that
because we're gonna be replacing it
in a very short period of time."
And that short period of time,
which we initially thought may have been days or weeks,
could turn into months or even years.
And during that time period,
if we're not patching that hardware,
updating agents or firmware and so forth,
again, we're introducing risk into the environment.