Hey everybody, welcome back to Pluralsight.
I'm your instructor, Christopher Rees,
and in this module, we'll be talking
about third party risk assessment and management.
So let's go ahead and take a look at what we'll cover
in this module, we'll be talking about vendor assessment,
vendor selection, agreement types,
and then vendor monitoring, questionnaires,
and rules of engagement.
So as usual, pull back the curtain a bit,
look at these subtopics.
Take a moment to check these out
so you understand what we're covering.
And then when you're ready, let's go ahead and get started.
All righty, so why is this important?
Well, a third party risk management is critical
to developing and maintaining a strong security posture.
It helps to safeguard an organization's data, reputation
and also compliance, ensuring that external entities
do not introduce vulnerabilities,
disruptions, or legal issues that could harm the business.
Okay, so what are some of the benefits
of effective third party risk management?
Well, first off, we have an enhanced security posture.
So third party risk assessments help organizations identify
potential vulnerabilities and weaknesses
in their supply chain or various partnerships.
So by addressing these issues,
you can improve your overall security posture.
Also, risk mitigation.
By evaluating the security practices of third party vendors,
you can proactively identify and mitigate potential risks
before they turn into security incidents.
Also, regulatory compliance.
So many regulations and compliance standards actually
require organizations to assess
and to manage third party risks.
So by complying with these requirements,
you can avoid legal issues and also financial penalties.
Another big one is business continuity.
So assessing and managing third party risks help ensure
the continuity of your operations so you can plan
for potential disruptions
and have contingency measures in place to minimize downtime.
It can also result in cost reduction.
So effective third party risk management can lead
to cost savings.
By identifying and addressing risks early,
you can actually avoid much more costly security incidents
and their associated expenses.
And as we know, cybersecurity incidents involving
third parties can damage your organization's reputation,
and it seems like there's a new one of those happening
almost weekly anymore,
so that's a very real thing that we need
to make sure we're paying close attention to.
Proactive risk management can help protect your brand
and also maintain trust with customers and stakeholders.
Next is vendor accountability.
So holding third party vendors accountable
for their security practices encourages them
to maintain also a high level of security.
So this benefits not only your organization,
but also the broader cybersecurity ecosystem.
Then we also have resource optimization,
by focusing resources
on high risk third party relationships,
you can optimize your cybersecurity efforts
because as we all know, we all have limited resources.
So this allows that we're able to direct
to those limited resources where they're needed most.
Improved communication is another big byproduct.
So the process of third party risk assessment
fosters communication between your organization and vendors.
So this can lead to better collaboration,
shared security best practices,
and quicker incident response in case of security incidents.
And then lastly, competitive advantage.
So demonstrating a strong commitment
to a third party risk management process
can be a competitive advantage.
Clients and partners may actually prefer to work
with organizations that take cybersecurity seriously.