So having said all of that,
what about vendor assessment?
So in choosing vendors,
that's a good idea to ensure
that they are open to penetration testing,
right-to-audit clauses, evidence of internal audits,
independent assessments, and also supply chain analysis.
So if the vendors doing things right
and their security postures up to snuff,
these things should not be a big deal to them
and they're probably already doing them.
So they can share the results with you
or provide you evidence of internal audits on demand.
Also, independent assessments,
you may choose to have another third party come in
and do an independent analysis,
also analyze their supply chain
and understand how they're getting their goods and services.
A right-to-audit clause means you're able to go in
and audit their processes whenever
or during some agreed upon cadence.
So this all really boils down to due diligence.
So understand the vendor's security posture,
their financial stability, their capabilities,
and also their reputation with compliance and regulations.
These are all things that you should be doing
to evaluate the vendors
that you're gonna be doing business with.
Because make no mistake about it,
vendors will typically have access
to some of our critical systems,
or at least have access or knowledge
of those critical systems.
So if we partner with someone whose security practices
are not in alignment with our own, in other words,
their security practices are weak by comparison,
then that effectively can open up a side door
into our organization.
And there's been, time and time again,
examples where companies have been compromised
due to third-party compromise,
a supply chain compromise, right?
Some vendor was hacked
and the bad actors then used that relationship
or that connectivity to gain access
to their actual real target.
And also part of the due diligence process
is to ensure that vendors don't have conflicts
preventing them from acting
in the organization's best interest.
Because, again, they're a vendor you are hiring,
you need to make sure that they're acting
in your best interest at all times.