So let's take a look
at a real world example here for non-compliance.
So British Airways incurred the largest fine ever
for a data breach back in 2018.
So here they are flying in.
Basically it's a $238 million fine.
So that's obviously extremely substantial.
If you happen to be with British Airways,
you know the story better than I do,
and hopefully that's water under the bridge,
but that is a significantly and materially impactful fine.
So basically what happened over 500,000 users were impacted
and it centered around non-compliance with GDPR regulations.
It was a major card attack that skimmed credit card data.
This malicious code malicious JavaScript
was installed on web servers and basically skimmed
e-commerce transaction data from users.
So as you can see, not a trivial instance.
So if we break it down a little more detail,
I'm not going to read through all of this,
but just understand that back in 2018, they were fined,
as I mentioned, $238 million roughly,
and was basically determined they failed to implement
adequate security measures to protect customer data.
So over 500,000 customers were affected.
Attackers compromised login credentials
issued to one of British Airways' third-party suppliers.
And as you can see here, attackers compromised
login credentials issued to one of British Airways'
third-party suppliers for a remote access gateway.
So this is significant.
We talked about this previously
about the impact of third-party providers
and making sure that we're assessing their security profile,
their security posture,
the controls they have in place and so forth.
So as I mentioned, the penalties were significant,
over $238 million.
Now they were eventually reduced to roughly $26 million
due to mitigating factors from COVID-19.
So in that regard, timing was in their favor,
but the fine was largely due
to British Airways not having necessary client-side
security protections in place.
Again, security audits, routine monitoring,
continuous improvement,
all of these things would help in this situation.
And not having visibility into a third-party vendor
ecosystem was really the weak link in the chain here.