Next, let's talk about penetration testing.
So penetration testing you may hear
sometimes referred to as pen testing, is a practice
that involves authorized simulated attacks
on a computer system or a network or an application,
to identify vulnerabilities and weaknesses.
So our primary goal here
is to assess an organization's security posture
and also provide actionable insights
to help strengthen those defenses
against real world threats.
So we start off, we have a target environment.
So I'll list out here hackers and also a red team
or penetration testers.
So these two different groups, although different,
obviously hackers are bad actors
and the red team are the good guys,
but they're basically using the same types of tools.
So they will go into an environment
and use either passive or active tooling
to see what's there.
On the other side of the coin,
we have our blue team or our defenders,
and they're tasked with protecting the environment,
detecting and identifying the tactics, the techniques,
and procedures of the red team,
or in a real world scenario, the hackers.
And again, I mention hackers
because the red team basically is gonna think like a hacker.
So they're using the same tool sets, passive or active.
On the passive side,
they might be using port scanners like Nmap or Masscan.
They can use vulnerability scanners like Nessus or OpenVAS,
packet capture utilities like Wireshark or TCPdump,
and then DNS enumeration tools like Dnsenum or DNSRecon.
On the active side, which is more invasive,
they may be using brute force tools like Hydra or Medusa,
exploitation frameworks like Metasploit.
They could be using password cracking tools,
John the Ripper comes to mind,
or any type of custom exploit along with truthfully,
one of the most effective is social engineering techniques.
And then something referred to as Google dorking,
which is the act of using Google and Google dorking
to look for known vulnerabilities and known systems.
Okay, so now we've set the stage.
There's a couple different environments
that the hacker or the red team,
the penetration testers may encounter.
So they could have an unknown environment
where they basically are given no information
and they have to use their tools
to gather all of the information.
So in an unknown environment, the pen tester has little
to no prior knowledge of the target,
the network or the infrastructure.
So that simulates a scenario
where an attacker will be coming in cold.
So they would use things like port scanners
or vulnerability scanners, also packet captures.
They might try some brute force tools
to attempt to guess credentials.
And then online information, publicly available information,
domain registration records, who is data,
again, social engineering, LinkedIn,
social media sites, and so forth.
Next, they might have a partially known environment.
So in a partially known environment,
the pen tester has some information about the target,
maybe IP addresses or basic network details.
And again, we're trying to simulate an environment
where an attacker knows a little bit, but not everything.
So some of the tools
and data sources they may be using are network scanners
to identify devices on the local network,
DNS enumeration tools, social engineering tools.
Again, if they can identify some users,
they can then use social engineering
and social media sites to gain information
to help construct phishing attacks and so forth.
And then as I mentioned, Google dorking,
using advanced search techniques
to find sensitive information.
And then lastly, they may have a known environment.
So here the pen tester
has comprehensive knowledge about the target,
including the network architecture, system configurations,
software versions, and so forth.
So in this type of a scenario,
we're simulating an attacker who has inside knowledge.
So here they're using exploitation frameworks
like Metasploit,
to automate attacks against known vulnerabilities,
password cracking tools like John the Ripper,
basically looking to crack hash passwords.
They may launch custom exploits
or do log and traffic analysis,
or they may have access to logs and traffic analysis.
Again, looking for network traffic anomalies and weaknesses.
And then even potentially source code review.
So analyzing source code of web applications
or software for vulnerabilities.
So again, just so you're clear on what teams do what,
we have an offensive team or the red team,
and they're basically doing adversarial simulations
using a variety of tools, techniques, and tactics
to mimic the actions of potential attackers.
Things like pen testing, social engineering,
and also physical security assessments.
They're also looking to do exploit discovery,
actively searching for vulnerabilities
and attempting to exploit them
to gain unauthorized access to systems or data exfiltration.
They wanna try to employ stealthy tactics
because again, they're trying to remain stealthy
and undetected for as long as possible
to assess that organization's detection
and response capabilities,
and then they'll provide comprehensive reporting.
So after the assessment, they provide detailed reports,
highlighting vulnerabilities,
and then recommended actions for improvement.
On the other side, we have the defensive team
or the blue team.
So they're responsible for maintaining
and improving an organization's security posture,
detecting and responding to threats,
and also protecting against cyber attacks.
So they're engaging in things like security monitoring,
meaning they continuously monitor networks,
systems and applications,
looking for signs of malicious activities,
using tools like ASIM,
a security information and event management system,
intrusion detection and prevention tools and so forth.
They also engage in incident response.
So blue teams are typically well-versed
in the procedures necessary to contain, mitigate,
and recover from security incidents.
And then also vulnerability management.
So depending upon how your organization functions,
blue teams may also manage patching,
vulnerability assessments and system hardening.
Again, we wanna reduce the attack surface.
And then also security awareness training.
So they educate employees about security best practices.
They wanna try to raise awareness of potential threats,
including but not limited to things like phishing attacks
and social engineering attacks.
And then one we really haven't talked about yet
is an integrated team or a purple team.
So if you combine red and blue together, you get purple.
And a purple team is a collaborative approach
that combines elements of both red and blue teams.
We're basically looking
to facilitate communication and knowledge sharing
between offensive and defensive teams.
So continuous improvement,
again, we're always looking to enhance communication,
making sure that the blue side
or the defensive team learns from the offensive attacks
and vulnerabilities discovered by the red team.
They also engage in attack simulation and response.
So purple teams can simulate attacks,
evaluate detection and response capabilities,
and help blue teams enhance
their incident response procedures.
And again, knowledge transfer.
So they foster that culture of learning,
sharing and collaboration between red and blue teams,
which ultimately, or I should say hopefully,
leads to more effective security measures
and strengthens the overall security posture.
Okay, that brings us to the end of this module.
Short and sweet, but full of good information.
Hopefully you had some good takeaways from that one,
especially around penetration testing, the various teams,
and where they fit into the grand scheme of things
and then you're hopefully able
to take some of this information back
to your own organization.
So definitely stick around
because up next we have security awareness practices,
one you also won't wanna miss.
So I'll see you in the next module.