Hey everybody, welcome back to Pluralsight.
I'm your instructor, Christopher Rees, and in this module
we'll be talking about security awareness practices.
So let's go ahead and take a look
at what we'll cover in this module.
We'll be covering phishing, anomalous behavior recognition,
user guidance and training, reporting and monitoring,
development, and then execution.
So as usual, let's take a look behind the scenes,
look at the subtopics.
I'll pause here for a second
so you can read through what we'll be covering.
And then when you're ready, let's go ahead and get started.
Alrighty, so why is this topic important?
Well, as I say pretty much every time, (laughs)
every one of these things is very important
for developing a strong security posture.
But one of the key takeaways here
is that security is really everyone's job,
and proper awareness training helps empower individuals
to recognize, respond to, and also prevent security threats.
So some of the benefits of effective security awareness
are it mitigates cybersecurity risks and threats.
We also build what's called a human firewall
against security breaches,
because as we've learned, oftentimes,
the human element can be the weak link in the chain,
and I don't mean that derogatorily.
Sometimes people make mistakes, they are negligent,
not necessarily intentionally malicious,
but just not doing something correctly
can introduce vulnerabilities.
So by implementing proper training,
they understand best practices
and how to go about their business
to make things as secure as possible.
It also prevents phishing and social engineering attacks,
and ensures compliance with regulations and standards.
And it also protects sensitive data and reduces data leaks.
As you can imagine,
the more trained and the better prepared we are,
that will improve incident response capabilities.
It also fosters a culture of security
within the organization,
and ultimately safeguards an organization's reputation,
which we've learned is extremely important
to overall success, longevity,
and just sustainable business operations.