So if someone actually reports
a suspicious email to you, there are some general guidelines
when it comes to responding.
Now, this will vary a bit from organization to organization,
how you have your things set up,
how you have your security departments segmented
may be a bit different.
But generally speaking, we want to acknowledge the report
so that way the individual who reported
that suspicious message,
we're giving them positive reinforcement.
And then we want to make sure we document the details,
gather as much information as possible,
then isolate the message.
So if it was received by an email system,
consider isolating that to prevent any potential malware
from spreading within your organization.
You would also consult
with your organization's incident response plan
if you're not already familiar with that
or if it's outside of your specific department.
So again, it's best to be proactive
and plan for things before they actually happen.
So the time to change the tires
isn't when the bus is rolling down the highway.
So these things should be developed ahead of time
so that when you do hit an incident,
you know how to respond.
Then we would analyze the message,
basically examine it for common signs of phishing
or malicious intent, such as a suspicious URL,
an attachment, or request for sensitive information.
If possible, try to verify the sender.
So if the sender claims to be from a legitimate organization
or even a department within your own organization,
independently verify their identity
through official contact information,
but not replying to that suspicious message.
From there, assess the threat level.
Make sure we're understanding the impact
of that suspicious message.
Consider whether it could be part
of a larger phishing campaign or pose a significant risk
to your organization's security.
Next, it's important for containment and remediation.
So if that message is in fact determined
to be a phishing attempt or poses some type of threat,
then we need to make sure we take appropriate action.
So that may involve quarantining the message,
blocking the sender, initiating some type
of remediation steps such as password resets, and so forth.
When it comes to communication,
obviously you and your department will know about it,
but make sure you communicate that out
to the incident response team.
If that's not you, provide them with as much detail
as possible, and then alert remote locations as well
if you have them as a proactive heads up measure.
And then it's gonna be good to educate and raise awareness.
So using the incident as an opportunity
to educate employees about phishing threats
is always a good idea.
Conduct training sessions or awareness campaigns
to help them recognize and also report suspicious messages
in the future.
From there, we want to make sure we monitor
for further activity, keeping an eye on related
or subsequent suspicious messages.
Phishing campaigns often involve multiple attempts,
and monitoring can help identify patterns.
And of course, respond proactively.
Depending upon the nature of that phishing attack,
we may need to report to authorities.
So if that message is determined to perhaps be part
of a broader cyber crime offensive
or poses a significant threat,
then we would consider reporting it
to relevant authorities such as law enforcement
or a cybersecurity agency.
From there, update security measures,
which entails reviewing and updating
the organization's security policies,
and of course, as mentioned,
cybersecurity awareness training
to prevent similar incidents in the future.
And then follow incident response protocols.
My assumption is you, as the security professional,
are already involved in the incident response plan,
but again, depending upon
how your organization is divvied up,
you may not be actually part of that specific group.
So again, if that's the case,
then make sure you're just following proper protocols.
Now, all of these things
are not necessarily manual processes.
Automation and orchestration platforms
can help expedite this quite a bit,
so analysis, alerting, quarantining,
isolation, and so forth.
All of these things can happen pretty much in real time.
So I just want to make you aware,
these are not necessarily serial tasks
that have to take place, one after the other.
Some of these things will be done in parallel
and pretty much in real time.