Okay, next, let's talk
about mobile device vulnerabilities,
and a few things you need to be aware of.
So, third party app stores,
rooting or jailbreaking,
side-loading, custom firmware,
carrier unlocking, firmware over-the-air updates.
These are all things
that are potential security vulnerabilities
in the environment.
So let's take a look at jailbreaking.
So jailbreaking, for iOS devices,
and rooting, for Android devices,
different names, but it means the same thing, are processes
that involve removing software restrictions, right?
These are things that are imposed
by the device's operating system.
So, we're taking that restriction away
so we can basically do whatever we want, right?
We're the admin or the superuser,
or the root user of that specific environment.
So the goal being to gain elevated privileges,
often referred to as root or superuser, again, on Android,
or root access on iOS or Apple devices.
So let's look at some of the nuances
between jailbreaking and rooting these mobile devices.
And again, keep in mind we do this,
because we wanna install applications
that we're typically aren't allowed
to install, or can't install.
We wanna go around the vendor's official app store
and download things that were created
by maybe independent creators and so forth, right?
We wanna avoid having to go
through this specific lockdown vendors app store,
or customize our phone in a certain way,
or do things basically that we weren't allowed to,
or weren't initially intended to be able to do.
So on Android, right, rooting that mobile device allows us
to gain elevated privileges.
So this basically
grants super user administrative level access
to the Android operating system,
allowing us to make system level changes.
Same thing with custom ROMs.
So these modified versions of the Android OS
can allow additional features and customization
that weren't necessarily originally intended.
And also app customization, which we talked about.
System file modifications, third party app stores, again,
going around the vendor's official app store
to download things that aren't typically allowed.
And then custom kernel installation,
which allows for device customization,
perhaps enhanced performance, and so forth, right?
All of these things, however, have the potential
to break that device or make it unusable,
and then introduce a multitude of security vulnerabilities.
On the iOS side, we can bypass restrictions.
Again, app installation, we can use nonofficial app stores
to download applications
that aren't available via the app store.
It allows customization of experience.
You can change things like colors,
how apps appear on the home screen, and so forth.
It can provide access to system files,
application tweaks, right?
All of these things can void the warranty.
All of these things have the potential, again,
to break that device and introduce a multitude
of security vulnerabilities.
So you kind of get the recurring theme here.
All of these things might make life a little nicer
or a little easier for the end user.
It provides them customization,
but it also introduces a lot of security vulnerabilities.
So one of the goals here should be
to make sure we educate users
to understand they should not be doing this,
especially in a corporate environment.
If they wanna do it with their personal device,
that's on them.
But in a corporate environment,
we wanna make sure this does not happen.
Now, of course, we can install applications
and software on those devices,
make that very, very difficult, if not impossible,
or at least we can monitor and be aware
if it does happen or is attempted.
But user education is key here.
So they understand the ramifications of what they do
and also the security vulnerabilities
that they may be introducing into the environment.