Next, let's talk about
user guidance and training.
So a few things that should be included
in training are policy and handbooks.
And really this is important,
because clear and comprehensive security policies
and handbooks provide employees with guidelines
for secure behavior and also help set expectations.
So employees should receive training
on the organization's security policies,
covering topics like data handling,
acceptable use of technology, and also incident reporting.
Next is situational awareness,
and the importance revolves around teaching employees
to recognize and report suspicious activities
or potential security threats.
Again, the goal being to enhance
the overall security posture.
So training programs should include situational awareness
exercises such as identifying phishing emails,
which we've talked about, detecting unauthorized access,
and understanding the signs of social engineering attempts.
Insider threat training, again, important
because employees need to understand that the concept
of insider threats and really what their role is
in preventing and reporting suspicious behavior.
So training there should address the risks
associated with insider threats.
Emphasizing the importance of protecting sensitive data
and reporting concerns.
Don't put passwords on sticky notes on your monitor.
Don't leave them on your desk.
Don't walk away from your workstation
without it being locked.
Things along those lines, just very simple things
that go a long way to helping secure the environment.
Password management is another important topic.
Proper password management is crucial
for preventing unauthorized access
to systems and to accounts.
So there some of the training topics should revolve
around creating strong passwords,
using MFA or multifactorial authentication where possible.
And also recognizing common password
related threats like phishing.
Now that we're living in a bit of a post pandemic world,
it's really important that employees receive guidance
on securing their remote workstations
and understanding the unique risks,
'cause they're not being monitored like they would be
in a corporate environment.
So training should address remote work security practices,
including securing home networks, VPN usage,
and secure communication protocols.
When it comes to social engineering, as I mentioned,
that's one of the key things that are used by bad actors.
So as we know, these are attacks relying on
manipulating human behavior.
So it's crucial that employees learn
to identify these risks.
So training should revolve around recognizing
and resisting social engineering attempts,
including phishing, pretexting, and baiting.
When it comes to operational security,
this involves protecting sensitive information
by controlling the release of data
that can be exploited by adversaries.
So training should really revolve around OPSEC principles,
emphasizing the need to safeguard classified
or confidential data.
And then lastly, removable media and cables.
So very important here,
because cables can introduce security risks,
and I'll talk more about that in just a moment.
And training should really revolve around safe practices
for using USB devices, cables, drives, and so forth.
I always say basically treat it like a toothbrush.
If you found one laying on the ground,
you wouldn't pick it up and use it.
So have that same mindset when it comes to removable media.
So when it comes to malicious cables,
sometimes referred to as evil USB cables,
these are custom built with advanced logic chips
and eavesdropping capabilities.
They look just like a normal USB cable.
It has additional things like Wi-Fi, malware,
could be GPS, et cetera.
They can download payloads.
Some have Wi-Fi or cellular capability, GPS capability,
and if someone picks it up
and puts it into their workstation or their computer,
it can connect to Wi-Fi, dial home,
and then a remote attacker can gain
full access to that system.
These cables were originally developed
by the NSA in 2008 under the code name of cottonmouth,
and they were upwards of 10 to 15 to $20,000 a cable.
I think in the very beginning.
These days you can order them off websites for under $200.
They're not super expensive
and they're also very hard to identify.
So if you're interested in researching
that a bit more on your own,
I would check out this website, hak5.org.
They're the developer of a lot of this technology
typically used for red teams or penetration testing.
But again, as we know, all the tools that can be used
by the good guys can also be used by the bad guys.
So it's important that users are aware,
they understand what the risks are, that these things exist,
so users can collectively help to strengthen
that security posture.