When it comes to actually devising the plan,
we wanna start in the present
and then look forward where we want to be, basically.
So what's our current level of awareness?
And as you understand where we want to go,
we may need to meet with senior management to understand
what their needs are, and then of course,
lay out our desired level of awareness.
So the difference between where we're at
and where we want to be is a gap, right?
So we're gonna do a gap analysis,
and that includes identifying what skills
or resources are needed,
and also potentially what infrastructure.
From there, devise a plan to achieve those awareness goals.
And as always, we wanna focus on continuous improvement.
And this could be in collaboration with suppliers
or vendors, stakeholder, or key customers.
So we could actually invite them in to do training,
or the training could be geared toward them.
And when it comes to skills training,
some additional information,
we wanna make sure we lay out our goals and objectives.
So as I mentioned, what's our expected outcomes
and success criteria?
We also wanna make sure there's adherence
to company standards.
Funding may or may not be within your wheelhouse,
but it's always something to consider.
And then executive buy-in and participation.
For it to really be effective and sink in,
it really should have executive sponsorship
and be a top down initiative.
When it comes to developing specific skills,
we need to define the intended audience.
Different groups have different skill levels,
and they may require different levels of training,
identify gaps in those skills,
and then create training to level up employees.
And as we know, not everyone learns the same way
or ingests information the same way.
So we need to make sure we create
varying methods of delivery.
Classroom, online, could be study groups,
so on and so forth.
And then reinforce that over time.
After we've done that, the third leg in our stool basically
is to develop metrics and KPIs.
That way we can measure effectiveness.
We can make future funding requests easier
because we can now show what's working,
a reduction in security incidents,
results from our phishing tests and so forth.
So again, continuous awareness builds upon itself over time.
So this should be a continuing effort, whether it's monthly,
quarterly, or yearly,
and it's never really a bad idea
to make it a contest or a game, right?
Some type of competition to help measure participation.
And like all things that we do, we're always searching
for continuous improvement.
So we wanna make sure we identify needs, which then helps us
to design training, which then helps us to deliver training.
Then we do an assessment. We want constant feedback.
We're getting feedback from the recipients.
We evaluate all that feedback,
and we roll that into identifying needs going forward.
So the goal is long-term awareness, increased readiness,
and continuous improvement.
We develop methods to obtain feedback.
As I mentioned, a constant feedback loop
is never a bad thing.
So develop feedback, metrics, and KPIs
to measure effectiveness and then refine over time
and act on feedback, fix what doesn't work,
and strive to constantly improve.
So just some examples of training, delivery, and execution.
So if the training's being developed in-house,
we may have formal training sessions,
maybe all hands meetings.
We can set up posters or swag, could be in the elevators,
in the hallways, and so forth.
Reinforce the message on our company intranet
or newsletters, and then contest for participation.
We can have team competitions, capture the flag,
hackathons and so forth.
It's never a bad idea to overcommunicate
and to reinforce that message.
We can have phishing simulations.
Sometimes we may bring in training from a third party,
and that can be web-based training.
It could be live webinars or offsite events,
or computer-based training like Pluralsight as an example.
We can also get training from VARs or vendors.
And in those instances, we may have them set up lunch
and learn sessions, sponsored outings or conferences.
And again, they can bring in industry best practices
and insights from their experience with various customers.
Or they may set up a multi-company training session,
a bit of a mini conference, if you will,
so that companies can learn from one another
and share best practices across industries.
As we all know, time is money.
So making these things as impactful as possible,
short and sweet, and then reinforce them over time,
helps to send the message home, have it sink in,
and ultimately strengthen our security posture.
Okay, a lot of good information there around training,
understanding things like phishing campaigns
and the need to properly train employees
so they don't fall victim to these types of attacks.
So hopefully that's useful and you found
the information informative.
Stick around though, because up next is our domain summary.
I'll see you in the next module.