Okay, next up, let's talk about
radio frequency identification or RFID.
And these are card readers used for inventory control,
access to buildings, secure areas, and so forth.
And as you can see, there's a few components to the system.
We have the TAG or the RFID itself, a card,
or it could be something placed on a document
or a piece of clothing or some type of inventory,
and then an antenna that is brushed against
or coming close proximity to some type of reader
or an interrogator,
and then a computer or a system that processes that.
So in the context here, we're talking about RFID
to allow access to a secure area of a building and so forth.
So some things to keep in mind.
RFID brute forcing is more difficult than traditional,
what we just talked about previously,
simply because the physical access and proximity required
and the realtime nature of that specific brute force.
Also, the attacker needs a compatible RFID reader
and cards to test against.
They need something they can actually
brute force over and over, some type of automation
to scan all the possible codes,
and then some type of system response monitoring
to identify success so they can then understand
the structure of the codes,
what's being passed and so forth,
so they can then craft their brute force attack.
There are some brute force mitigations here as well,
similar to what we talked about before.
Strong encryption, so utilizing strong encryption algorithms
between the TAG and the reader
can make brute force impractical
due to the computational time required.
And then we also have rate limiting.
So implementing timeouts
after a certain number of failed attempts
can slow down or deter a brute force attack.
And then also multifactor authentication,
we talked about that before,
requiring a second form of identification, like a PIN
or a biometric piece of data, maybe a retina scan
or a fingerprint can add an extra layer of security.
Alerting mechanisms can be set up
to configure alerts and let administrators know
when multiple unsuccessful attempts are made
in quick succession.
And then ID randomization.
So some modern RFID systems use dynamic
or randomized IDs that change with each interaction
making static brute force attempts very much ineffective.