Next, let's talk about password attacks.
So when we're talking about password spraying,
we're feeding a large number of usernames into a program
that loops through passwords.
It's a brute force type of an attack that can be used
with dictionary attacks
or a database of compromised passwords.
But instead of actually taking one user account
and trying every single password combination,
now we're taking very common passwords
and trying it against a large number of user accounts.
So this way it helps avoid account lockouts,
it helps avoid triggering types of alarms.
Because we're not trying bunches of different passwords
with a user account.
We typically will take a slow and low approach
to this and try these common passwords
against a large number of user accounts
so that administrators and security personnel
don't really see it coming.
Now, this can be mitigated
by using two-factor authentication
or some other techniques that we've talked about previously.
Okay, next, let's talk
about various indicators of compromise,
and we'll just kind of go through the list here.
So account lockouts, we wanna make sure
that we set our accounts so that after
X number of password attempts,
the account gets locked out.
Typically, three or five, maybe a little higher,
but after five incorrect attempts,
that account should lock out and then require some type
of manual interaction to unlock the account.
Also look for concurrent session usage
to make sure that multiple people
are not using the same account.
And then we also have blocked content.
So if we have users that are continuously trying
to get access to content that's blocked,
that could be an indicator of compromise
or an indicator that someone's trying to do something
that they're not supposed to be doing.
We can also look at impossible travel,
and we'll talk more about that in just a second.
But if someone logs in from the East Coast,
and then five minutes later they log in from the West Coast,
well, we haven't developed time travel yet,
so that's not really a possibility unless
they're using something like a VPN,
or it's a bad actor logging in from multiple locations.
Also, resource consumption.
So by setting baselines and understanding what's normal
in our environment, we can understand what's abnormal.
So for resource, for example,
typically gets relatively low use,
then all of a sudden, it jumps through the roof.
Well, that could be an indicator of compromise.
Someone's trying to brute force that resource,
trying to do some type of password attack
or some type of breach that needs to be looked into.
And then we have resource and accessibility.
So if one of our resources suddenly goes offline,
well, it could be a hardware failure,
it could be a number of things,
but is certainly a potential indicator of compromise,
especially if a number of systems or a number of resources
start to go offline or become inaccessible
that will require immediate attention.
And depending upon how good your systems are
and how good your alerting is,
the users may know about it before you do.
So you may actually be notified by our users
versus your actual systems that are in place.
But either way, you'll know about it soon enough.
So resource and accessibility
should be looked at very, very quickly.
And then we have out-of-cycle logging.
So this occurs when specific events or conditions trigger
the immediate or unscheduled generation of log entries.
So these events are often indicative of unusual
or suspicious activity and usually warrants some type
of immediate attention.
So examples might be failed login attempts
or unusual file access, unauthorized software installation,
and so forth.
So of these things, again, once we understand what's normal,
anything that's suspicious should trigger
some type of immediate, or quote-unquote,
out of cycle logging.
Next, we have published or documented IOCs.
And basically, these are things that can originate
from a variety of sources, including cybersecurity reports,
threat intelligence feeds, government agencies,
security vendors, and so forth.
So basically, information that we can use
to compare indicators within our own environment.
So such things like malware signatures or IP addresses
that are associated with suspicious or malicious activity.
Could be domain names, file hashes, whether it's files,
documents, or scripts that are known
to be associated with malware or exploits.
Also, registry keys or even behavioral patterns,
which are known as TTPs,
or tactics, techniques and procedures.
So these are things used by threat actors,
such as various attack methodologies
or malicious code execution techniques.
And then lastly, missing logs.
So if we see that logs that should be there
are suddenly missing have been deleted,
well, that's a clear indicator that someone
is trying to clean up their tracks
and remove evidence of their activities
and what they've been doing.
So if any of these things pop up or generate alerts,
they should be acted upon immediately.
So just to dig in a bit deeper to what we just talked
about a moment ago,
so impossible travel or risky login.
Well, it's a security feature
in many cloud-based applications,
and it can be done on-prem as well.
But basically, it utilizes AI or ML to determine
what's normal and what's risky.
So logins from IP addresses or locations
within a time period that is shorter
than an expected travel time.
As I mentioned before,
someone logging in from the East Coast,
and then 20 minutes later,
logging in from the West Coast.
Well, that one's an extreme example, obviously.
But what if someone's actually traveling
between two cities within the same state?
And realistically, would take them three hours to travel
between two points, but they're logging
in within an hour and 45 minutes.
While it may be a small enough time window
for a human to miss that one,
but our systems is to become more and more aware,
can pick these things up, right?
So it may require an initial learning period to understand
what exactly is legitimate
and refine its processes over time,
but these systems are becoming very good
at picking up anomalies.
Okay, so that was a very big module
packed full of information.
Hopefully, you found it informative and useful.
I would probably recommend watching it two
or three times to allow the information to sink in.
But of course,
everyone has different learning styles, obviously.
So do what works best for you.
But please stick around because up next,
we'll be talking about mitigation techniques
to secure the enterprise.