Next, let's talk about the concept
of access control lists, or ACLs.
And what we're doing here is determining the level of access
to one or more resources.
Basically we're talking about permissions.
So read, write, modify, delete, those types of things,
execute, depending upon which operating system you're in.
But the permissions that are needed to do a specific action.
Right, then we also have no access,
which basically means if that's turned on,
it doesn't matter what other permissions you have.
If no access is enabled,
that basically trumps everything else.
And then it can also be implicit or explicit.
So in other words, allow everything except X,
or we could say deny everything except X.
So we could be very specific and say
only allow application A or application B to run,
deny everything else,
or we could say allow everything to run
except application A or application B.
This is sometimes referred to
as whitelisting or blacklisting.
If they're on the whitelist, it can run.
If it's on the blacklist, it can't run.
So these are just basically two different ways
to grant access to an application.
So we have a few types of access control lists.
We have a discretionary access control list, or a DACL.
And this is really the most common type of ACL.
It allows for an owner of an object to access
and specify permissions or specific users and groups.
So the owner is able to determine what users have access
and the level of access or permissions.
Then we have a system access control list, or a SACL.
And this is used for auditing,
basically specifying which users or which processes
should be audited when specific actions are attempted,
like someone's trying to log in,
or they're trying to access a folder or a file,
perhaps read or modify or delete.
So we can audit for very specific activities,
and that will get written to an event log
or a security log which we can then go back and refer to
or monitor or review later.
Or we could have it send to a system
that's monitoring that more in real time,
and if one of those actions take place,
we can become alerted more or less in real time.
So a few use cases for access control lists.
We have file systems.
So ACLs are used to control who can read, write,
execute files and directories, as we talked about.
It can also be used in the context of network security.
So ACLs can be used in routers or firewalls or switches
to control traffic by specifying which IP addresses
or which ports are allowed or denied.
And we also have ACLs in use for database systems.
So ACLs define which users can access
and modify specific data tables or rows.
And then, also, when it comes to cloud services
or web applications.
So ACLs are used to manage permissions for users,
resources, or even API endpoints.
So the same concept when we're talking about ACLs,
just different use cases or different contexts.
And then, (laughing) everyone's favorite topic,
the concept of least privilege.
So this is the practice of providing individuals
or systems with the bare minimum level of access
or permissions necessary to perform their job function
or specific tasks.
(laughing) If you do that, you may not have a happy user,
but you're securing your environment, right?
So it's very granular.
It can be default deny.
So if I don't explicitly say you can do something,
then it's just implied that you can't.
And then we can also do something
called role-based access control, or RBAC.
So based upon the role that you're assigned,
you have certain permissions granted with that.
So in other words, if you're in finance,
you automatically have a certain set of permissions,
but if you get moved from finance to, say, HR,
those permissions are taken away
and then new permissions are granted.
So that way, you only have the permissions required
to do your job, nothing more.