And then real quickly,
let's talk about attack vectors.
So when we're talking about the different ways
that these hacking groups can get in
or actually access our data
or do damage to our enterprise,
we have a couple of different things to talk about.
So direct access: so that might be physical access.
They're gonna come on-site.
And when they do so, they wanna do theft
or removal of property, intellectual property
or physical devices and so forth.
So we can guard against that by physical security,
by user training and awareness, right?
We talked about some of the physical
security attributes before,
whether it is our secure vestibules or mantraps,
CCTV, guards and so forth,
and then user training and awareness.
I'll say this here,
and I say it again throughout the rest of the course,
is that security is everyone's job.
If you see something, obviously say something.
But everyone should have a security mindset
when they're at their desks,
when they're accessing files and folders,
when they're leaving stuff around,
thumb drives and so forth;
how they secure data:
are they leaving it on their desk
when they leave for the night?
Are they putting in a secure location and so forth, right?
All of these things
play into making for a secure environment.
And then wireless.
So such things as captive portals,
evil twins, network sniffing, right?
Some of this we talked about,
some of it we'll talk about in future modules.
But understand that hackers
can get close to our environment,
maybe even sit in our cafeteria or close by our building
and use wireless devices to capture some of this stuff
and gain access to the network.
So we can, again, avoid some of these things
or secure our networks by using VPNs or encryption.
And again, it goes back to user training and awareness.
When it comes to email,
everyone is familiar with things
like malware or malicious links.
Also, phishing and whaling.
Some of these things we'll talk about in more detail later.
But understand that email is a very common way
and a very effective way to get access to networks,
because people will click on links
not thinking that there's anything wrong,
especially if it's a very well-crafted phishing email
where it appears to come from someone that they know;
they're likely to click on that,
and of course then open themselves up
to attack from the outside.
User awareness and training,
kind of a recurring theme here.
But these things go a long way
to helping secure the environment.
Next, we have supply chain.
So supply chain can be a weak link,
and we'll talk more about this in a later module,
but downstream attacks, watering hole attacks.
So a company may be very, very secure,
but a very skilled hacking group,
if they understand the supply chain and how logistics work,
they may go after something higher up in the food chain
and they may attack a system being delivered to you,
so that it's compromised before it ever even gets to you.
So when you attach it to your network,
they now have a hole or a gateway into your network.
So supply chain security,
making sure you vet who these people are
and how they deal with their security,
making sure it's in line with your security best practices,
these things can go a long way
to helping secure the environment.
So such things as SLAs,
or service-level agreements, in place.
And then assessing the links in that supply chain,
as I mentioned, making sure their levels of security
is in alignment with yours.
Next, we have social media.
So things like malicious links, phishing,
social proof, group consensus.
All of these things can be used with social engineering
and tricking people into clicking links
or doing things that can open themselves up for compromise.
So as you guessed it, user training and awareness.
And these things should be done,
not necessarily just a one and done or one per year,
but it should be repeated in different fashions
or different forms;
so that message is continually given to the users
and that it's always top of mind.
When it comes to removable media,
such things as USB sticks, CF cards,
like in cameras and so forth, CDs and DVDs,
which most people don't use anymore.
And I'm sure I can date myself
by saying things like Zip disks,
which probably no one's ever even heard of anymore.
But malware, ransomware, all of these things
can be included or injected
into these pieces of removable media.
So if a hacking group goes out
into the parking lot of your building
and drops five or 10 USB sticks out into the parking lot
or in the cafeteria or whatever, people are curious.
They may pick it up and say,
"Hmm, I wonder what's on this?"
plug it into their laptop, and then malware is injected
onto that machine, their laptop,
and then a hacker has their way into that network.
So it's very important
that people understand the ramifications of what they do.
So we can protect against that using group policy
so that we can't use certain types of media.
Corporate policies, again, different types of controls,
administrative versus technical and so forth.
But corporate policy that says
do not use these types of things so people are aware.
And then, again, user training and awareness,
so everyone understands the threats that are out there
and how to mitigate against those things.
And then we have the cloud.
There are cloud provider vulnerabilities.
Cloud providers are usually bigger targets
just because they have so many other companies,
not just you, on that network.
So they're targets for things like DDoS,
or distributed denial-of-service.
And again, multitenancy
means there is typically more than one company
on that infrastructure.
So your website, your applications, your VMs or containers
or whatever you have spun up in the cloud
typically lives on infrastructure
that has other groups on there as well.
So that multitenancy brings maybe economies of scale,
and it may be financially more attractive
because you can reduce costs,
but it comes with its own set of challenges
to make sure they're secure;
if another company gets breached,
does it affect you and so forth.
Again, SLAs in place, service-level agreements,
so you understand their security best practices
and what they put in place,
how they notify for breaches and so forth.
And then also assess providers and third-party agreements
to make sure their security best practices
and how they actually interact
with their vendors and so forth, how it goes downstream,
is in alignment with how your best practices are in place,
so that you're all aware and you're all on the same page
when it comes to how security is handled,
how notifications are handled and so forth.
Okay, so a good module on different types of threat actors,
the things that motivate them,
whether it's ideological, political, financial gain,
espionage and so forth,
and then also the level of funding.
And then we talked briefly
about the different types of attack surfaces
and then some ways to mitigate against those attacks.
So hopefully you found that module informative,
but stick around, because up next we'll dig even deeper
and talk about common threat vectors and attack surfaces.