Next, we have something referred to as HIDS
or HIPS.
So that stands for Host-based Intrusion Detection
or Host-based Intrusion Prevention System.
So similar in function
to a network intrusion detection system
or a network intrusion prevention system,
again, we're talking about a host level
versus network level, so it runs on a specific host.
Now, HIDS systems can detect anomalous behavior
and alert as needed.
The differentiation being HIPS
or the intrusion prevention system functions very similarly,
but also can take additional action if necessary.
So not just alerting, but it can actually take action,
shut down ports, turn on specific applications,
logging, so on and so forth.
And then some additional security considerations.
Disable ports and protocols.
We've talked about this briefly before, but disabling ports
and specific protocols reduces the attack surface and limits
an attacker's recon activities.
So the less we have exposed on the network.
If a bad actor's doing some type of penetration testing
or if they're doing some type of recon activity,
the less that they can probe
and the less information they get back,
that is of course less information for them to go on,
and it reduces the overall attack surface.
And then also changing default passwords.
And now this sounds like a no-brainer,
but it is a frequent attack vector.
It's very easy to remediate, but it's often overlooked.
So we have to make sure we're very diligent,
and this is one of those things
that comes back to user education, making sure that users
are aware they need to change passwords.
You don't allow the default passwords.
If you do a Google search,
there are tools out on the internet
that will search publicly facing pieces of infrastructure,
and it's always amazing to me how many are out there
in their default state.
So please change default passwords immediately.
And then removal of unnecessary software,
this kinda goes back to disabling ports and protocols.
We want to reduce the attack surface as much as possible
by reducing open ports, software and so forth, right?
By removing that software, it's also less for us to patch
and less for us to update and monitor
because as we talked about before, if we install software
and we don't monitor it, we don't use it,
or if it's installed by default, perhaps "bloatware",
it's things that we never touch, we don't look at,
we don't think about,
well, we're not gonna update those things.
We're not gonna patch them,
so eventually they become out of date.
There's vulnerabilities that potentially exist
that we're not even paying attention to.
So if you don't need a specific piece of software,
remove it from the system.
Okay, next up is our domain summary.
So congratulations, it's two down,
we're almost halfway there.
Five domains in the entire course.
Two down, three to go.
Thanks for sticking with me,
again congrats for getting this far.
Keep up the great work
and I'll see you in the domain summary.