(bright music)
Hey everybody.
Welcome to the CompTIA Security+ exam briefing.
This course is the sixth course in our series
on CompTIA Security+ certification.
This exam prep course will help you with what to expect
as you prep for and take the exam.
So as mentioned, in this course,
we're gonna cover what to expect and how to prepare
for the Security+ exam SY0-701.
As you know, the exam is comprised
of five domains covering a number of areas
with each area being weighted a little bit differently.
These domains are found in the exam objectives
or domains section of the exam guide.
My name is Christopher Rees and I'm an author, trainer,
and senior enterprise IT leader.
So I've been an instructor creating certification training
for over 20 years with over 50
courses created over the years.
I've had the privilege of training over 600,000 students
worldwide who have collectively watched
over a million hours of content.
I hold over a dozen certifications and have been CompTIA
and Microsoft certified since 1999.
I also have 23 years of enterprise IT experience,
and I have over a decade of senior IT management experience
as well for a large enterprise organization.
Prior to that, I was a law enforcement officer
and detective specializing in computer crime investigations.
So as far as this course goes,
as you've gone through each of the five domains,
you know that each course has multiple modules
covering the exam objectives
along with supplemental materials you can download,
including the slides for each module.
To download the exercise files,
navigate to the Exercise Files tab
and click the Download button.
In the exercise files, you'll find a helpful study guide
that you can use to follow along
during your certification prep for the exam.
It will contain a glossary of terms
that you should be familiar with,
as well as some practice questions.
I'm happy to join you in your certification prep journey
with the Exam Tips and Tricks
for CompTIA Security+ course here at Pluralsight.
(gentle music)