Hey, everybody. Welcome back to Pluralsight.
I'm your instructor, Christopher Rees,
and welcome to our Exam Tips and Tricks
for CompTIA Security+, where in this module,
we'll be doing an exam overview.
So at this stage of the game,
you should be sitting back with a big smile on your face
for a well-deserved congratulations, and while you might ask
why you're due for a congratulations,
well, you've just worked your way through
that amazing Security+ course,
so it's time for a much need to break
to sit back and relish in your accomplishments.
When it comes to passing Security+ certification,
you wanna know the best part?
You actually get keys and the passcode
to the cybersecurity executive washroom.
So that's a very, very secret place
that most companies have but no one really knows about.
(laughing) Now, obviously I'm kidding, but seriously,
there are a number of perks that we'll cover here
in just a few moments that make passing the certification
a very worthwhile endeavor.
So let's go ahead and talk about
what we're gonna cover here.
In this module, we're talking about passing the exam, right,
and we'll get to that in just a moment,
but that's ultimately why we're here.
We wanna pass the exam and we'll cover what's next.
After you've passed the exam,
what can you then look forward to?
We'll talk about the exam format.
We'll talk about registering for the exam,
how that actually is accomplished,
and there's two different ways you can take the exam.
We'll talk about the exam lifecycle,
and then we'll talk about any prerequisite experience
or knowledge that's expected but not necessarily required.
So having said all of that, let's go ahead and get started.
Okay, now, Security+ is currently broken into
five different domains.
So let's go ahead and take a look at these.
First off, we have domain 1.0,
which is General Security Concepts,
and this accounts for 12% of the overall test.
So the percentage attributed to that specific domain
accounts for how much of that domain
is weighted against the total exam,
so 12% General Security Concepts.
Domain 2.0, we have Threats, Vulnerabilities,
and Mitigations, and that's a bigger slice of the pie,
and that is 22%.
Next we have domain 3.0, which is Security Architecture,
which accounts for 18% of the total exam.
Then we have the biggest domain, which is domain 4.0,
and that is Security Operations,
which accounts for 28% of the exam.
And then the fifth domain is
Security Program Management and Oversight,
again accounting for 20%.
So as you can see, things are spread out relatively evenly,
but it does allow you to see
which areas are potentially more important.
Now, that's not to say that one area should be studied
and one skipped over.
It's extremely important that you go
through each of these domains
and you watch all of the material
because each one of these domains
and our corresponding Pluralsight course
has important information not only for just passing the exam
but for general knowledge in the real world.
Also, a Security+ certification
is compliant with ISO 17024 standards
approved by the US Department of Defense
to meet directives 8140 and also 8570.01-M.
Right, it meets those requirements,
meaning certain federal and military
or government jobs in general,
Security+ can be used to meet the requirements of
some of those job roles and functions.
So when it comes to passing the exam, well, what's next?
While there are a number of options
and career paths that are available,
some examples of which would be
a security operations center analyst.
You could go into network security specifically
or forensics, whether that be
within a corporate environment,
a legal or law enforcement environment, right?
There's a number of different verticals within forensics.
It could be application security or DevOps security,
infrastructure security, talking about server hardening
or storage or data protection, those types of things,
cyber vaulting or cyber resiliency.
All of these things are becoming more and more important
as ransomware and breaches become more and more prevalent
across every vertical in every industry across the world.
Another career opportunity is penetration testing,
otherwise known as pen testing, where you go in
and try to identify vulnerabilities within a company,
whether you're an outside consultancy
or you work for a company and you're testing
your internal resources as well.
Also, a threat detection analyst, a very important role,
as they feed information to pretty much every other area
within the security infrastructure, enriching the data,
the indicators of compromise and so forth,
allowing security personnel to make decisions
much more rapidly.
That very much functions as a force multiplier
in squashing threats before they become a big problem.
Also, a cybercrime investigator,
again, whether that be within law enforcement, a consultant,
or perhaps within a specific company or a law firm.
Once you pass Security+, there are a number of options
and a number of paths as you develop
your cybersecurity career.
Security+ is obviously a great certification
and an awesome foundation for everything that follows,
but there are additional certifications
that you may or may not be interested in.
Some examples of those certifications are CompTIA.
Now, you're obviously familiar with CompTIA
because you just went through that awesome Security+ course,
but there's also others like Cybersecurity Administrator.
There's a CompTIA Advanced Security Practitioner,
and also Pen Testing.
Some additional security certifications
that you may be interested in, ISC squared,
which stands for the International Information System
Security Certification Consortium.
(laughing) It's a mouthful,
so everyone just says ISC squared for short,
but such things as CISSP or SSCP, right,
a systems security cloud practitioner,
or CCSP, a certified cloud security professional,
CAP, certified authorization professional.
Then we have CSSLP,
certified secure software lifecycle professional,
and then HCISPP, a healthcare information security
and privacy practitioner, and then EC-Council,
another certifying body that has a number of certifications,
over 30 certifications in fact.
One of the more popular ones that you may be familiar with
is CEH, or certified ethical hacker, again lending itself
to that pen testing job role or function.
And then we have some more advanced certifications
from GIAC and SANS, again, over 30-plus certifications
for very specific job roles and functions.
They go very, very deep into a specific function.
Now, when it comes to the Security+ exam itself,
we have 90 questions and also you have 90 minutes
to answer those questions.
So you do the math there, one minute per question,
and then a 750 score or better out of 900.
Anything above 750 is passing.
Anything below a 750 would be a fail.
The format is made up of multiple choice questions
and then also performance-based questions,
and that could be drag and drop,
where you have to match something
or click on something within a diagram
or place something in the correct order.
And then we also have simulations,
and that could be entering something in a command prompt,
perhaps to configure ACLs on a file
or something along those lines,
or you could turn functions or features on or off,
whether it be like setting an SSID on an access point,
configuring settings on a firewall,
things along those lines.
So you have a mix of multiple choice and performance based.
As far as how those things are weighted,
it's really not published,
and CompTIA doesn't say that performance based
is weighted more than multiple choice,
but the general consensus is they probably are,
but again, don't spend too much time on any one question
because, again, you have 90 minutes for 90 questions.
We'll talk about tips for passing the exam
in the next module, but just understand the format
and the type of questions that you may face.
When it comes to registering for an exam,
we have two options.
You can either do in-person testing,
and that's done through Pearson VUE testing centers.
So if you go to their website and create an account,
you can then enter in your address or your zip code
and it will give you locations near you
where you can go and take the exam in person.
We also have online testing available,
and that's again also through Pearson VUE
but through their Pearson OnVUE program,
which is a proctored exam, and in that situation,
you'd have to provide some identification,
a selfie at that point in time
to prove you are who you say you are,
and then you would also have to take a picture
of your work environment.
A webcam will watch you as you take the exam,
and there's a live proctor that also does that as well.
They monitor what you're doing,
make sure that you don't have additional monitors set up,
you don't have, you know, cheat sheets
and information laying around
that you could actually look the information off of.
So as long as you have a clean environment,
it's very much the same experience
as if you were to take it in person.
You see down here at the bottom, I have the address listed
for the CompTIA specific location to register.
Again, you have to go in, create an account,
and from there enter your zip code or address
and it will provide you with locations
if you're gonna go in person or you can then register
also for the online or the remote VUE proctored exam.
When it comes to exam lifecycle,
the CompTIA exams are typically refreshed
roughly every three years,
and there's usually a six-month overlap
between the old exam and the new exam.
So during that time period,
you could either take one or the other,
the old or the new, depending upon your studying,
where you're at in your current curriculum and so forth.
Basically they do that every three years or so,
make sure they're updating the exam
and basically mirroring the changes
in the world of IT security and just IT in general.
Things don't stay the same very long.
So a three-year refresh cycle is pretty applicable.
The amount of material that changes from version to version
is going to be different each time.
It just depends upon what's changed
over that three-year period.
Are there specific technologies
that are just no longer in use?
So they may pull those things out of the exam
or they may keep them in but make them
a much more smaller piece of the exam, so on and so forth.
Right, so the amount of changes will vary from exam to exam.
As far as prerequisite experience is concerned,
we have someone that's very happy (laughing)
because basically for CompTIA Security+,
there is no formal prerequisite experience required.
However, you really need to have a general computer,
and if possible, a cybersecurity background to a degree.
Knowledge or experience is gonna be very helpful.
CompTIA A+ and Network+, again, very, very helpful.
General Windows, Linux and networking knowledge
is going to give you the background that you need
to make those performance-based questions,
and then also just general troubleshooting skills
will serve you very well throughout your entire IT career.
That skill alone will pay dividends out in the real world.