Hey everybody.
Welcome back to Pluralsight.
I'm your instructor, Christopher Rees,
and in this module we'll be talking
about common threat vectors and attack surfaces.
So let's go ahead and dig in
and see what we'll cover in this module.
A bunch of information to cover.
So you can go ahead and pause here for just a moment.
Read through this.
So let's go ahead and get started.
Okay, so the current state of affairs.
So where are we today?
Well, mobile usage, as I'm sure you know,
is way up over the last six to seven years.
So mobile traffic is actually up over 200%,
222% over the last seven years.
So mobile traffic was 11% of worldwide traffic in 2012.
However, it's now 56% of worldwide traffic
as of this year, 2023.
92.1% of internet users access the internet
using a mobile phone.
So a big shift from PCs, laptops
to mobile over the last five, six, seven years.
And an interesting fact is there will be over 1 billion
5G connections worldwide by 2025.
So as you can understand,
the market is just growing and growing and growing,
and what that means is the attack surface
and the threat vectors also grow commensurate with
that increased growth in mobile and so forth.
So to put it graphically, mobile traffic back in 2012
was around 11%, and then in 2023 up 56.5%.
So you can see quite a jump over the last,
say 10 years or so, 10 or 11 years.
Some interesting stats around this.
In 2016, there were 3.6 billion smartphone users
around the world.
47% of smartphone users say they literally
couldn't live without their devices.
I wouldn't say I'm one of those to that degree,
but I'm sure if you're like me, you reach into your pocket
and your phone's not there, you panic for a second
until you figure out, "Where's my phone?"
Because basically your life revolves
around all the information that it contains.
And then 62%
of smartphone users have made a purchase on the device.
Again, that continues to increase day by day.
In-app advertising will rise to 201 billion by 2021.
Again, that's a slightly older stat.
Smartphone users worldwide will reach 6.92 billion in 2021.
The top 10 vendors contribute almost 77%
to the global smartphone market.
And here's an interesting one,
99.3% of all internet users in China
go online using their mobile devices.
This is back in 2020, so it's probably even higher now.
Point is basically everything is done via mobile devices.
And then 70% of YouTube traffic is coming from smartphones.
Android has 81.7% share of the global market.
Some folks believe that Apple
and iPhones are the center of the universe,
but the reality is Android has a much bigger
market share globally.
And then the average user checks their phone
roughly 60 times per day.