Okay, so no talk about
security would be complete
without talking about confidentiality, integrity,
and availability, right?
The CIA, not the CIA, the Central Intelligence Agency,
but the three things I mentioned,
confidentiality, integrity, and availability.
So what does that actually mean?
Well, we're talking about the CIA triad
in regards to information and how we can access it,
how safe is it, how secure is it, and so forth.
So the CIA triad is basically three elements
to help ensure that data is kept private, kept accurate,
and also accessible to authorized users.
A few CIA examples would be confidentiality
also referred to as privacy.
So an example of a technology that would allow that
would be encryption
or also 2FA or multifactor authentication.
Additionally, such things as airgaps,
and we'll talk about these in more detail down the road,
but basically separating our network
so that it's not connected to other networks,
not connected to the internet and so forth, right?
We're keeping that data confidential or keeping it private.
And then we talk about integrity.
And another way to think of that is
consistency and accuracy.
So we wanna make sure that file permissions are proper
and that access control is also proper.
So that way we know that it's consistent, it's accurate,
and the folks that need to have access to that data do.
And conversely, the folks that don't, don't have access.
And then also such things as version control.
So that way we know we're dealing with the latest,
greatest version of a file,
or if we need to look at a specific version,
perhaps three or four versions back,
we know which one we're looking at.
And then availability.
That's consistent accessibility,
and that could be such things as patches and updates,
making sure that our systems are up to snuff,
and that we're meeting our security requirements,
making sure that we're not compromised,
we're not taking down by malware, viruses,
ransomware, and so forth.
And then also such things as backups or DR/HA,
disaster recovery and high availability.
Again, we'll talk about those concepts later in the course.
So when it comes to non-repudiation,
it's the assurance that someone cannot
deny the validity of something, right?
Some documents, some email, some what have you.
So it can also be a service that is maintained
so that a sender and recipient cannot
deny having participated in that communication.
So something like a PKI
or public key infrastructure provides that service,
that provides for non-repudiation
through the use of public key and private keys.
We'll talk more about PKI in an upcoming module,
but assuming a user keeps this private key secure,
data encrypted via that private key could
only originate from that user.
And again, we'll talk about how that actually works later,
but just understand there are mechanisms
that we can put in place to make sure
that a user does something
or when a user does something,
we can actually substantiate that,
yes, that user did that,
because he's the only one that
could have originated that message
or could have participated in that communication.
Again, primarily because of this PKI infrastructure.