Next, let's shift gears slightly
and talk about deception and disruption technology.
So we have honeypots, shocker.
I think the graphic kind of gave that one away.
But a honeypot is really a computer or a host
that is set up specifically to become targets of attack.
So we're making something very sweet to that attacker.
They look at it and say, "Ooh, look at this.
We have some honey sitting over here."
Like Winnie-the-Pooh,
he walks over and puts his hand in the honey pot.
Only thing is we're standing off on the side
and watching everything that he does,
understanding how that attacker actually acts,
the tools they use, the techniques they use, and so forth.
So in doing so, we set up a network or a host
and make it look like that computer or that server
or that resource has sensitive information
or something that might be interesting to an attacker.
So it appears to have sensitive information
and it's monitored very closely at a very, very deep level
to attract the hackers,
learn their methods and their techniques.
By the same token,
we have something referred to as honeyfiles.
Very similar concept, but it applies to individual files
instead of a host or a server,
but it has the same basic function.
It's designed to entice bad actors to engage
and then monitor their activities.
So as you may imagine,
if we expand that concept even further,
we have something referred to as a honeynet.
A honeynet is similar to a honeypot,
but much larger in scale.
So it's a network that is set up intentionally for attack.
So the attackers, again, can be monitored and studied.
So network infrastructure, routers and switches,
along with various servers, operating systems, and so forth,
are all set up and just sitting there waiting
for the attackers to come in,
so we can then monitor, like I said, what they do,
how they do it, how long they're doing it for,
et cetera, et cetera.
So an example of a honeynet.
So let's say, for instance, we have a host,
so this would typically be a virtual server,
and we can set up multiple guests on that host.
So we would have a very beefy server, virtual server.
And if you don't understand what virtual servers are yet,
we'll cover that in more detail a little bit down the road,
but understand that it is a server
that can house other servers with inside of it virtually.
So a virtual server, we have something
referred to as a honeywall, which is kinda like a firewall,
but we're doing some additional monitoring and so forth
on that honeywall.
So it's data control, data capture,
data analysis, and so forth, right?
We're doing packet captures, wire sniffing,
all types of analysis of forensic collection of that data.
And then we have our honeynet.
The honeynet I talked about before
is a network that's comprised
of various machines and so forth, right?
In this instance we have Linux servers
and then Windows servers.
So we'll have some different services
running on this network or on this honeynet,
DNS, NTP, Network Time Protocol.
You might have FTP, Linux web servers,
and then we might have a few different hosts
on the Windows side, Windows 11, Windows 10,
various service pact levels and so forth
to give an attacker something to really, you know, jump into
and chew on for a bit.
And as they do all of this reconnaissance
and they're trying to figure out what's good on the network
or there's some crown jewels you wanna really dig into,
what's sensitive information they can grab,
well, we're monitoring all of that.
So let's say, for instance,
we have our intruder on the network, right,
Harry the Hacker, Mr. Bad Actor.
While he's sitting there on his laptop somewhere,
could be in a nation-state, could be across the world,
could be in their parents' basement.
(laughs) Who knows, right?
So from there, they're gonna access the internet.
Well, once they do that,
they're gonna connect to our firewall
or our external public facing resource,
and from there they'll connect to the honeywall.
From that point, we're monitoring
every single thing that goes on.
And we have a management server ourself
that's connected to the honeywall,
and it allows us to, again,
do packet captures, analysis, and so forth.
So the intruder comes through, like I said,
the internet, the firewall, to the honeywall,
and then on into our network.
And as they do that, like I said,
we're doing different levels of packet inspection.
We have a couple different options.
We could do shallow packet inspection,
but we're basically just doing header information,
maybe source and destination IP address.
We could do medium packet inspection,
which is a little bit more metadata around that packet.
Or we could do what's called DPI or deep packet inspection
where we're doing all of the above,
plus we're digging into the actual payload of that packet.
We're understanding what data
is actually being sent over the network.
So this is crucial information
to allow us to identify the TTPs,
where really what's called the tactics, techniques,
and procedures that attackers use
to access networks and helps us strengthen our defenses,
because if we understand how the attacker works,
we can then understand how to defend against those attacks.
All right, a lot of good information in that module
when we talked about such things that as confidentiality,
integrity, and availability,
the different types of authentication,
zero trust, which is a big one,
very important to understand how that all works,
and then a few extra pieces of information
around physical security.
And then we talked about honeynets,
honeypots, honeyfiles, and so forth.
So hopefully that all made sense.
If not, please feel free to rewatch
until it starts to sink in.
So stick around because next we'll be talking
about change management processes and impacts.
I'll see you in the next module.