Hey everybody, welcome back to Pluralsight.
I'm your instructor, Christopher Rees,
and in this module we'll be talking about
using appropriate cryptographic solutions.
So this is a jam packed module.
So let's go ahead and get started.
Talk about what we're gonna cover here today.
So we'll start off with public key infrastructure, or PKI.
We'll talk about encryption.
We'll talk about various tools for encryption,
things like obfuscation.
We'll talk about hashing and salting.
Also, digital signatures along with key stretching,
blockchain, and the fact that it's an open public ledger,
and then also certificates.
So as usual, if we dig in
and look at all the things in this module,
you'll see there's quite a bit of information here.
To keep this from being a two hour course,
I'm gonna cover the main topics here in this video,
and then I'll also include some additional information
in the slide deck that you can download
that will contain some additional background information
or some added info that might be of value to you.
But take a moment and pause this if you need,
just to understand what's covered in this module.
And then once you're ready, let's go ahead and get started.
So I guess the million dollar question is,
why should I care?
Well, basically, encryption is everywhere.
Whether we notice it or not, it's everywhere,
and it can either work for us or against us.
So not understanding what is appropriate
and what is no longer secure can be very costly.
And what I mean by that is
that if we think we're doing things securely,
we're not up on technology,
and we think what we're doing is good enough,
chances are it's not, right?
If we're not up on it, it's already probably been bypassed,
it's deprecated, it's legacy, and it's no longer secure
or as secure as we think it is.
So it's important to always keep up on these technologies.
And then also, security is everyone's responsibility,
even if you're not tasked with it directly.
So when it comes to public key infrastructure or PKI,
what is it?
Well, public key infrastructure are components
that enable the usage of digital certificates,
and also a two key system, a public key,
and a private key for encryption and other things.
So it can consist of hardware, software, people,
policies and procedures.
It's kind of an amalgam of a lot of different things
that kind of come together to give us
this public key infrastructure.
So to dig a bit deeper.
Well, public key, as the name implies,
is one part of a public key infrastructure, or PKI,
and that's used to encrypt and also to decrypt data.
So in essence, it's the mathematically linked key pair
that has a corresponding private key.
So a public key, as the name implies,
designed to be made publicly available to anyone.
So if you have a public key, private key,
I can give my public key to anybody.
They can then use that to encrypt information back to me
that only I can decrypt, right?
The private key, on the other hand, must be kept secret.
The entire ball of wax really predicates itself
on the security of that private key.
If that's compromised, all bets are off.
Conversely, the private key is one part
of the public key infrastructure as well,
that's used to encrypt or also decrypt data
when you might think, well, wait a minute,
isn't that what the other thing said?
Well, yes, they can both be used to encrypt or decrypt,
and we'll talk about the nuances there in just a moment.
So again, a mathematically linked key pair
that has a corresponding public key.
Now, the private key, as I mentioned,
is designed to be kept private.
It's very, very important.
That's probably the most important thing
out of this entire discussion.