So in this day and age,
everyone has their mobile phone
and they're taking pictures of what they had for lunch,
what they had for dinner, because it's so important
that we know who had sushi
and what restaurant they ate at and so forth.
On top of that, we're taking pictures of ourselves,
taking pictures of our food, whether at a bar
or a restaurant, and what we had to do.
Everything is geared around social media.
What that does is allow attackers to inject code, malware,
viruses into images, into websites transmitted down
to our computers, our mobile devices,
and so forth, which then, worst case scenario,
we sit down at our laptop or our PC to do some work,
then, all of a sudden, boom, malware is infected on our PC
or our laptop, ransomware and, even worse,
we may bring that ransomware into our corporate environment
and then lock down the network
or, even worse, take our entire company offline.
So let's talk about how all of these things
actually get started,
some of the attack vectors that can bring these types
of threats and so forth into the environment.
So we have image-based threat vectors.
We've talked about some of these before.
So malicious image files.
So vulnerabilities in handling or processing
or the displaying of an image file, right?
So that can be done in a number of different ways,
but it's done such that when you click on that image,
it can do something behind the scenes.
You may not even be aware of it,
but it can do something nefarious, execute scripts,
download additional software
and so forth to compromise your system
and, ultimately, compromise your network.
Steganography, which we talked about,
is basically the embedding of information within images.
Very difficult to detect.
There is software out there that can help assist with this,
but it's one of those things that is not super,
super common, but it's out there
and we have to be aware of it.
And then we have things like watering hole attacks,
so injecting code into image files, hosted on websites,
frequented by a target audience,
and then Remote Code Execution,
or RCE, especially crafted image files that can allow
for arbitrary code execution, kind of in line
with everything we've just talked about.
And then we have file-based threat vectors.
So similar in concept to image-based threat vectors,
malicious executables, document files, archive files, .zips,
.rar files, tarballs and so forth, or scripts.
And basically, that's used to spread malware
to gain unauthorized access, distill data, exfiltrate data,
try to bring a company down to its knees
and so forth without actually stealing anything.
They just wanna destroy everything.