Okay, let's go ahead and shift gears
for just a moment and talk about some tools
that we need to be aware of.
So we have things like a TPM chip.
So this is a secure area, usually embedded on a device,
and it's used to store cryptographic keys
like we just talked about,
the public key, private key, so on and so forth.
Those are cryptographic keys.
So the TPM chip on a laptop or on a desktop, right,
a computer or a server, they're embedded on the motherboard.
They're not accessible from outside of the computer,
and their purpose is to store those cryptographic keys.
We also have something referred to
as a hardware security module, or an HSM.
That's similar to a TPM, although it can be installed later.
So it's not built into the motherboard.
It's typically a card that can be installed on a server,
and that can be used to securely store
those cryptographic keys.
And then also a key management system.
So that could be an in-house or a third party platform
that's used to manage encryption keys
external to the devices being encrypted.
So those things are great
as long as that doesn't get compromised
or you don't blow up that system,
and then all the keys are gone.
So again, pros and cons to all of these things,
but a key management system can be used
to manage keys across a number of different devices.
And then we have something referred to us as Secure Enclave,
and that is a dedicated secure subsystem
integrated into Apple Systems on a chip, right,
iPhones and so forth, iPads,
and it's isolated from the main processor
to provide an extra layer of security.
Quick example of a Trusted Platform Module, right?
So here's a TPM chip,
but again, just a chip that's embedded on the motherboard
of that computer,
and it's used to store cryptographic keys
used for encryption.
Conversely, we have a hardware security module,
and you see here we have a rack-mounted version.
And again, it's similar to a TPM,
but HSMs are removable or external devices
and can be added later.
So here you see a rack-mounted one.
It can also be a card that can be inserted
into that server or computer,
but both are used for encryption
and for storing those cryptographic keys.